January 1 – “Did not join family at Pygmalion Party but met them with Barcalos at The Fosters for dinner.” 

 

Jan 2 – “Morning at Beach’s sitting for photos – the children & I.” 

 

Jan 3 – “Sunday, church with Thekla. Bartons here for dinner. Mrs Parmelee called with Fosters. Dorothy at K. 
Cookes.” 

 

Jan 4 – “Beautiful day. Spent morning picking up house & looking over bills. Down town this afternoon bringing Jessie 
up for tea with me at The Club. Reidpaths here for dinner.” 

 

Jan 5 – “Shopped all the morning with Dorothy. Laura out all afternoon shampooing etc. Numerica, pedro and pool this 
Dorothy’s last evening at home.” 

 

Jan 6 – “Heard Lucy Pratt of Cambridge, Mass. give her Ezikiel Stories at The Club this morning. Dorothy went back to 
College to-night very reluctantly.” 

 

Jan 7 – “Home this morning secretarial work. Ordered sapphire ring this afternoon! Feeling quite unhappy over Hattie’s 
physical condition.” 

 

Jan 8 – “Heard Mrs Havelock Ellis speak on ‘The Art of Happiness’ at The Garrett Club. She read also a very Mystical 
story.” 

 

Jan 9 – “Marketed as usual. Heard Chro. Club alone. Charming Beethoven written for cello & clarinet!” 

 

Jan 10 – “Isabelle in bed so I was at home this morning. Heard Dr Boynton on Matthew Arnold this afternoon – home & 
got supper – then to bed.” 

 

Jan 11 – “Sat for my pictures again this morning & went to dress-makers. Isabelle in bed so I was home rest of day.” 

 

Jan 12 – “Morning at oculist with Darwin. 

 

Jan 13 – “Mrs Barcalo’s guests at The Club to-day. Dentists. Stopped at Ida’s where Isabelle had waited for me looking 
over my proofs which at last seem satisfactory.” 

 

Jan 14 – “Made eleven calls with Isabelle and found no one at home but Mrs Board. Mr Martin at Nichols School dinner 
to-night. We read our Republican & had Moreys here.” 

 

Jan 15 – “Unpleasant morning at oculists with Darwin. Out again this afternoon with him for errands. Dancing school 
tonight. Weather very mild.” 

 

Jan 16 blank 

Jan 17 blank 

Jan 18 blank 

Jan 19 blank 

Jan 20 blank 

Jan 21 blank 

Jan 22 blank 

Jan 23 blank 

Jan 24 blank 

Jan 25 blank 


Jan 26 blank 

Jan 27 blank 

Jan 28 blank 

Jan 29 blank 

Jan 30 blank 

 

Jan 31 – “C. S. Church this morning with Isabelle. Spoke to reader & some of the girls. Dorothy’s for supper. Virginia 
sang. Later in D’s room had Information Test with Faith. Peg, Sarah, Harriet & D.” 

 

February 1 blank 

Feb 2 blank 

 

Feb 3 – “Interesting interview with Dr Burton who showed us plans for the future college.” 

 

Feb 4 – “Lovely day shopping at Brigham and for Dorothy’s screen. Leaving this evening for home and relieved for I’ve 
felt so apprehensive ever since we left.” 

 

Feb 5 – “Arrived Buffalo 6.20. Mr Martin met us with news of ‘Maud Dick’s’ death last night which saddens Isabelle a 
good deal. Went down and got my ring.” 

 

Feb 6 – “Morning at Miss Sellien’s. Roads in terrible condition again. Mrs Underhill in for tea. Mrs Morey in this 
evening. Read most of ‘Children of Earth’ in between times.” 

 

Feb 7 – “Darwin and I went alone to church – Mr Martin being wretched again with boils. Home quietly the rest of day.” 

 

Feb 8 blank 

 

Feb 9 – “Postponed Literary Club meeting. Greek Symposium great fun! ‘Katie’[?] with us for luncheon & we made 
plans for Herr Schmidt’s lecture here. Elena Gerhardt’s recital heavenly lovely!” 

 

Feb 10 – “Afternoon at Club – Drama League meeting followed by tea with Genevieve Stoll. Sipprell exhibition of Color 
Photography very fine.” 

 

Feb 11 – “Errands – ending at Club for luncheon. Munder and James out for tea.” 

 

Feb 12 – “Lovely luncheon to-day – only Katherine couldn’t come – with May Staples and Mrs Putnam.” 

 

Feb 13 – “Read ‘The Sunken Bell’ this morning. Called on Mrs Bell, Clara Allen, Mrs Neill, and The Halls this 
afternoon.” 

 

Feb 14 – “Very tired and have slept six hours of my Sunday. The Simpsons dropped in for supper.” 

 

Feb 15 – “Read all the morning – war news etc. Drama League meeting to meet Mrs Saunders of Boston. Evening with 
‘Lena[?]’ over Japan! The year of years to go! 

 

Feb 16 – “Splendid papers by Mrs Bugbee & Mrs Merrill at Literary Club. Made Seneca Street calls this afternoon. 
Kreisler recital had to miss on account of upset circulation.” 

Feb 17 – “Ash Wednesday service at Trinity Church very beautiful indeed. Mr Davis impresses one greatly with his 
spirituality. Ida at luncheon with us. Brought out lovely pictures of Switzerland.” 

 


Feb 18 – “Noon service at St Paul’s. Walked up afterward to Century Club for luncheon. Dined at Mrs Barcalo’s with 
the Fosters.” 

 

Feb 19 – “Reading ‘The Master Builder’. Took Ida with me shopping this afternoon. Mr Martin gone to-night to spend 
Sunday and the 22nd with Dorothy.” 

 

Feb 20 – “Day devoted to entertaining Prof Schmidt at dinner to-night with Simpsons and The Drama League. 150 
present to hear Prof S. wonderful lecture on Ibsen.” 

 

Feb 21 – “Church. Very mild day and drove to Clarence this afternoon. Mrs Hubbard Miss Crawford and Katherine here 
for supper.” 

 

Feb 22 – “Worked in the greenhouse most of morning. Visited ‘Katie’s’ class and heard ‘The Lady from the Sea’. 
Isabelle not well to-night so are not hearing Prof Usher on The Scope of German’s Ambition.” 

 

Feb 23 – “Isabelle in bed all day. Bartons here for dinner to hear Mr M’s account of his & Laura’s visit to Smith – ‘the 
three most wonderful days he ever had in his life.’” 

 

 Feb 24 – “Isabelle better but not up until night again. Finished ‘The Lady from the Sea’ and Henry Arthur Jones 
delightful comedy ‘Mary goes First’.” 

 

Feb 25 – “Luncheon at Club. Mrs Barton & Mrs Morey with us. Mrs Neill brought out for tea. Miss DeLong who 
charmed us all with her account of her starting The Pine Mt. School in Kentucky.” 

 

Feb 26 – “In Rochester all day. A very cold windy and trying experience in as much as I had another fall!” 

 

Feb 27 – “Much looking over of materials for spring dress-making. Mrs Ellis lecture at four upon Edward Carpenter. 
Mrs Coonley Ward, Mr Bazir, Miss Rudd, Miss Sackett here for tea.” 

 

Feb 28 – “Church out here with Mrs Morey and then a long walk. Alone this evening & had Thekla out for tea – wagon 
supper before the fire.” 

 

March 1 – Mrs Coonley Ward wished to come out again so was here for luncheon and afternoon until we took her to Miss 
Muzzcys[?] new bungalow for tea.” 

 

Mar 2 blank 

Mar 3 blank 

 

Mar 4 – “Chromatic Club calls again this afternoon – interesting discoveries!” 

 

Mar 5 – “Dentist and errands this morning. Long nap this afternoon because of dinner this evening at Mrs Parkers with 
Fosters, Wills, and Dolds.” 

 

Mar 6 – “Very humid day. Fine program at Chromatic Club ending with Jan Sickecz[?]. Called at Mrs Birdsall’s on way 
home.” 

 

Mar 7 blank 

Mar 8 blank 

Mar 9 blank 

Mar 10 blank 


Mar 11 blank 

Mar 12 blank 

Mar 13 blank 

 

 Mar 14 – “Sunday. Wyoming. ‘Church’ at breakfast table – guests repeating 19th & 23rd Ps. Addeson’s Hymn & 
Stevenson Prayers. Drove thro’ the Gulf. Rest of day given to guests – principally to Charles & Saadi.” 

 

Mar 15 blank 

 

Mar 16 – “Spent morning looking over Mrs Wards jewelry and gems until we left to drive to Warsaw for our train. 
Arrived home at two after three most perfect days.” 

 

Mar 17 blank 

Mar 18 blank 

Mar 19 blank 

Mar 20 blank 

Mar 21 blank 

Mar 22 blank 

Mar 23 blank 

 

Mar 24 – “Anna ill and gone” 

 

Mar 25 – “Dorothy came this morning for two weeks. Virginia and her Mother were here for luncheon. Plans for Mr 
Martin taking the children to California this summer nearly settled.” 

 

Mar 26 – “Luncheon at The Club taking Mrs Morey to visit with Dorothy. Afterward saw Joe Allen about Darwin’s week 
of straight failure in Greek!” 

 

Mar 27 – “Mrs Wick’s funeral this morning.” 

 

Mar 28 – “Sunday – called on Thekla before church” 

 

Mar 29 – “Isabelle & Dorothy in Rochester. Had Jessie for luncheon with me at The Club. Ground covered with snow 
again – weather very cold.” 

 

Mar 30 blank 

Mar 31 blank 

 

April 1 – “Dress-maker’s this morning. Went with May Staples to Mrs Clifton’s funeral this afternoon. Then had tea & 
nice visit with Mrs Simpson. Mr Shield’s lecture with Isabelle at C. S. church this eve.” 

 

Apr 2 – “Good Friday service at Trinity perfectly beautiful – beginning with the Vorspiel to Parsifal. Read Parsifal this 
eve. After Bartons and Mr Martin had gone to C.S. Lecture.” 

 

Apr 3 – “Last program of Chro. Club was a Bach one. Cantata was sung and there were selections for orchestra. A very 
delightful afternoon!” 

Apr 4 – “Home all this Easter Sunday until evening when we went down to the Wills for supper in their new house. Betty 
and Ida out this afternoon.” 

 

Apr 5 blank 


 

April 6 – “Dorothy’s luncheon for Mary Craus. Isabelle, Darwin & I lunching at Park Club.” 

 

Apr 7 – “Busy day getting Dorothy off to College.” 

 

Apr 8 – “Drama League meeting at 11 at Westminster church. Luncheon at Club taking Ida with us. Shopped after it. 
Mrs Morey here for dinner and night.” 

 

Apr 9 – “Summer’s day - 72°! Isabelle had a lovely birthday evening ending with card from Dorothy & long evening 
with Mr Martin on business matters.” 

 

Apr 10 – “Errands this morning finding at last satisfactory veranda furnishings.” 

 

Apr 11 – “Sunday. church with Thekla. Nice call on Bertha Keyes talking about Smith. She says Isabelle & I are not 
universal enough in our view-point – that ‘we can’t see the woods for the trees’.” 

 

Apr 12 – “Wet disagreeable day and in all day except to drive Isabelle up to Class.” 

 

Apr 13 – “May Staples remarkable paper at Club comparing four modern dramas with previous work of the Club. An 
unfortunate call upon Katie this afternoon. Miss Mann & Clark[?] had tea with us here.” 

 

Apr 14 – “Sigmund de Ivanowski who is to paint Isabelle’s portrait arrived about 11. Time was given to the hours & place 
of portrait etc. He is fresh from a winter on Martha’s Vineyard & full of inspiration.” 

 

Apr 15 – “Isabelle’s first sitting. I spent morning with them but I’m sure Mr Ivanowski would prefer to be alone with her. 
He is a Polish Count – very highly educated, a most remarkable man spiritually.” 

 

Apr 16 – “Mrs Coonley Ward came in at noon bringing the negro artist Mr Henry O. Tanner. They remained for 
luncheon. Mr T. proved to be an old friend of Mr Ivanowski & their meeting was lovely to see. Went later for tea at Mrs 
Matthews” 

 

Apr 17 – “Day given entirely to Darwin’s dance. Thirty-four children came. Isabelle chosen director for two years by 
Chromatic Club.” 

 

Apr 18 – “Sunday – at home all day. Ivanowski worked part of day and left this evening for High Orchard.” 

 

Apr 19 – “Early day. Went at 4.30 with Isabelle to Garrett Club for tea with Mrs Barrell to meet Mrs Seymour Barnard.” 

 

Apr 20 – “Morning given to Mrs Rumsey in Suffrage interests. Clayton Hamilton’s lecture on ‘The New Art of Making 
Plays’ disappointing. Glad we’re not going to Detroit! Moreys here for dinner because Eda does go [?].” 

 

Apr 21 – “Saw Pavlowa[sic] who does not impress me as being any more wonderful than many of her companions. 
Greek dance the most beautiful thing I ever saw.” 

 

Apr 22 – “Successful all day trip to Rochester. Letter from Mrs Salter waited our arrival home. Mary Prentiss came out 
this eve. & we decided to put recital thro’.” 

 

Apr 23 – “Much house-cleaning! Went with Isabelle to Chro. Club Directors meeting where they elected officers for next 
year.” 

 


Apr 24 – “Very hot day. temp. 80 degrees. Worked on Salter recital all day – sold 65 tickets. Fosters and Barcalos here 
for dinner.” 

 

Apr 25 – “Sunday. Frank Lloyd Wright here and no church for anyone.” 

 

Apr 26 – “Errands. Found Ida here for dinner when I returned.” 

 

Apr 27 – “Last Literary Club. Reports of Drama League Convention were given by Mrs Morey & Mrs Simpson. Ellen 
M. here for luncheon.” 

 

Apr 28 – “Last Century Club Meeting. Mrs Deming’s guests at luncheon.” 

 

Apr 29 – “Above should be written here.” [ ie,]”Mrs. Reidpath and M arrived home from their winter south. Mrs. Salter 
arrived at 5.30 for over Sunday. Mary P. out for evening deciding on programs etc “ 

 

Apr 30 – “Ditto” [ie] “Took Mrs. Salter to see Dalcroze exhibition at Franklin School. Mrs Kennedy, Mrs Barrell 
Mayer[?], Underhill, Hillman, Prentiss and Miss Larned guests at luncheon.” 

 

May 1 – “Ditto” [ie] “The Salter-Prentiss recital. One hundred present. Mrs. S. delightfully informal and interesting in her 
remarks about her songs.” 

 

May 2 – “Ditto” [ie] “Round of churches with Mrs. S. beginning with C. S. and ending at Westminster. Visited Mr 
Myer’s studio. Callers for Mrs. S. all the afternoon.” 

 

May 3 – “Saw Mrs Salter off at 9.30 this morning. Made several calls during day.” 

 

May 4 – “House-cleaning all day. Weather cold and rainy” 


May 5 – “Went to Mrs Kennedy’s luncheon in honor of Mrs Chamberlain’s niece Mrs Stevens given at The Club. Said 
good-bye to Ida” 

 

May 6 – “Very busy house-cleaning day.” 

 

May 7 – “Lusitania torpedoed by German submarine. Sank in 15 min. 1500 lives lost, among them it is believed Mr and 
Mrs Elbert Hubbard.” 

 

May 8 – “Motored to Lockport this afternoon taking Miss Heald with us who has recently lost her mother. Country 
perfectly beautiful!” 

 

May 9 – “Church with Thekla. Called upon Mrs Knowlton and Mrs Wilkes with her afterward and then had a good visit 
with her at dinner. Supper at Mrs Morey’s” 

 

May 10 blank 

 

May 11 – “House-cleaned my room. Saw Edurice[?] Noye[?] in original dances this evening accompanied by Mildred [N 
]” 

 

May 12 – “Bertha and Emily up from Rochester and we have had a lovely day! Ran down to the Falls after luncheon.” 

 


May 13 – “Mrs Coonley Ward & Stuart Walker here. Heard him talk at The Studio Club about his work at The 
Christodora House. A lovable charming man.” 

 

May 14 – “Mrs Reidpath and Margaret out for afternoon and evening.” 

 

May 15 – “Down town all the morning – hair and errands. Family took a country run this afternoon but I stayed at home 
doing odd jobs.” 

 

May 16 – “Cold rainy Sunday. Leaving this evening for Chicago.” 

 

May 17 – “Arrived in sunshine but the cold, too. Nice visit with Mrs D. alone, seeing presents and trousseau. Drive with 
Mrs Teter & luncheon at Fields given for Dorothy by Mrs Eaton. Charlie arrived at 3 & all dined together at 5746[?]” 

 

May 18 – “Sunny & cold. Decorated church with aspens. Our lady roses & candles added later. ‘Ave Maria’ Gounod’s 
played just before Dorothy entered, the bride of the most statuesque beauty I ever saw. Reception at house very pleasant.” 

 

May 19 – “Early start – visiting first Lorado Taft studio – a charming experience!! Luncheon with Winifred, nice walk 
around University buildings, back to Chicago to leave with Charlie at 5.30 after a heavenly time!!” 

 

May 20 – “Arrived Buffalo 7.30 this morning and have slept most of day.” 

 

May 21 – “Shocked to hear of Mrs Lyman’s death the 19th at The Del Prado! Attended Mrs Prentiss’s tea at College 
Club. Munder here for dinner.” 

 

May 22 – “Errands. Deposited $50 in Musical Extension Com. interests. Leaving this eve. with Isabelle for Phila., 
Atlantic City. Bethlehem (Ivanowski) Boston, etc.” 

 

May 23 – “Lovely weather here in Philadelphia. Motored thro’ Fairmount Park to Allen Lane to have supper with the 
Bournau[?] family.” 

 

May 24 – “Hotel Brighton, Atlantic City has much the atmosphere for us of Red Lion Inn. The Board Walk is certainly 
unique!” 

 

May 25 – “Hours on Board Walk. Moonlight lovely!” 

 

May 26 – “Photos taken. Hands read. Did all kinds of stunts today.” 

 

May 27 – “Auto drive this morning.” 

 

May 28 – “Left Atlantic City this A.M. for Bach Festival. Rooms with Mrs C. N. Shields 24 Church St. Heard St John 
Passion Music at 4 and at 8. Lovely beyond anything ever dreamed of.” 

 

May 29 – “Visited Sisterhood this morning and saw all Moravian interests. Heard B Minor Mass at two. Left for 
Cranford N. J.[?] at four where, thro’ the kindness of Mr Wessells we were taken in at Hampton Hall.” 

 

May 30 – “Sunday. lovely weather. Drove over to Mr. Ivanowski’s studio this morning and had a short sitting. Saw 
portrait and was disappointed.” 

 

May 31 – “Played Canfield all the morning until twelve when we went to Mr I’s again – this time for luncheon.” 

 


June 1 – “Luncheon at Mr Ivanowski’s again. Left at four for New York where we are at Collingwood for the night.” 

 

Jun 2 – “Shopped all the morning and then left for Boston where we are located at Hotel Somerset.” 

 

Jun 3 – “Morning with our nice old man at Lauriats[?] who raked up an old edition of Margaret Fuller’s Memoirs for us. 
Edith spent eve. with us bringing me the Herrick coat-of-arms.” 

 

Jun 4 – “Lovely day with Thorntons! Mr Martin and Dorothy here for ‘Siegfried’ given in Harvard Stadium to-night – a 
thrilling experience for us in our good seats.” 

 

Jun 5 – “Edith and I left at noon for Exeter where we have seen the boys beat Andover in base-ball. E. is a charming old 
town and I am pleased with F.D.C’s friends.” 

 

Jun 6 – “Edith sick all night and it has been a hard Sunday, so that Hotel Somerset looks good to me. Heard Frederic play 
the organ, however, which is what I went for.” 

 

Jun 7 – “Shopped with Isabelle and Munder this morning. Quiet afternoon Amherst Night at Pop Concert an inspiring 
event!” 

 

Jun 8 – “Went out to Wellesley for taste of Laura’s Commencement. Luncheon at [?] A. Tea at some other Society 
House. Float this evening.” 

 

Jun 9 – “Drove to see those wonderful rose-houses and took train at S. F. for Springfield. Rested all afternoon at The 
Kimball. The Ds. joined Isabelle for Buffalo and I came home.” 

 

Jun 10 – “Sewed for Hattie nearly all day in preparation for her California trip. Tom took for a ride about the City then 
we went to prayer-meeting.” 

 

Jun 11 – “More bags and collar and cuff sets!” 

 

Jun 12 – “Did last of Hattie’s shopping this morning – Pullman robe etc. Charlie took us this afternoon to Farmington.” 

 

Jun 13 – “Lovely Children’s Sunday at Immanuel Church. Mr Tucker, who has just returned from Cal., his sister, and 
Miss Hotchkiss here for supper.” 

 

Jun 14 – “Boiling hot day – Busy getting ready Charlie’s birthday dinner. Ames brought family down in auto.” 

 

Jun 15 – “Rain & humidity. Leaving this evening for Buffalo.” 

June 16 – “Arrived at 10 this morning. Buffalo is perfectly beautiful! Slipped my jaws and had a serious time at Dr 
Russells this evening.” 

 

Jun 17 – “Down town doing last errands for our Cal. travellers, and helping Miss Doty out with the sewing.” 

 

Jun 18 – “The Ivanowskis arrived this morning. The finishing touches were made and the portrait signed – a satisfaction 
to all. Family departed for California at 8.30. P.M. A blistering hot day.” 

 

Jun 19 – “The Ivanowskis came out at 11 and we went to Clifton House for luncheon. Mrs Davenport gave a small tea at 
4.30 for The Is. after which we stopped at Mrs Goodyears garden. Ivanowskis returned to N.Y. this eve.” 

 


Jun 20 – “Sunday – rested this morning, then went to Munders to dinner. Spent evening copying recipes and other odd 
jobs.” 

 

Jun 21 – “Made calls this afternoon and had dinner at Mrs Morey’s.” 

 

Jun 22 – “Dr Fay took out wisdom tooth this A.M. & thinks my ear-ache will stop. Bartons home from vacation & 
Isabelle went down to meet them & bring them out for dinner.” 

 

Jun 23 – “Very cold and rainy. Luncheon at Mrs Parmelee’s with Isabelle. Called on Olive Williams about College 
rooms. Grandma & Auntie Margaret out for dinner. Temperature 48!” 

 

Jun 24 – “Mrs Parmelee & her guest out for tea. Mrs Morey and Benedict over for dinner. Reading Memoirs of Margaret 
Fuller.” 

 

Jun 25 – “Visited around in the neighborhood this morning. Out this afternoon for a few errands. Weather still unusually 
cold.” 

 

Jun 26 blank 

Jun 27 blank 

Jun 28 blank 

Jun 29 blank 

Jun 30 blank 

 

July 1 blank 

Jul 2 blank 

Jul 3 blank 

Jul 4 blank 

Jul 5 blank 

Jul 6 blank 

Jul 7 blank 

Jul 8 blank 

Jul 9 blank 

Jul 10 blank 

Jul 11 blank 

Jul 12 blank 

Jul 13 blank 

Jul 14 blank 

 

July 15 – “Barcalos took us” 

 

Jul 16 – “Lovely run from Albany to Williamstown via Pittsfield, arriving at The Greylock in time for luncheon. Howes 
& Dean Ferry off on fishing trip but had nice visit with Mrs Dillaway.” 

 

Jul 17 – “Nice little visit with The Howes before leaving via Mohawk Trail for Greensfield. Delayed 5 hrs. for repairs – 
terribly hot! Picnic supper and lovely ride via Athol to Templeton for the night.” 

 

Jul 18 – “Sunday – luncheon at Groton Inn. Stopped at Whittier birthplace in Haverhill and at Deer Island. Supper at 
Newbury port. Night at Hotel Farragut Rye.” 

 


Jul 19 – “Left Rye this morning – visiting en route to Portland the Thomas Bailey Aldrich house in Portsmouth. Shore 
route quite disappointing – roads rough from recent heavy rains. ‘La Fayette’ attractive in Portland.” 

 

Jul 20 – “Drove about Portland – lovely city. Heard Municipal Organ Recital – McFarlane the organist, before leaving for 
Brunswick this afternoon. A lovely walk at sunset on college campus!” 

 

Jul 21 – “Left Brunswick at nine. Better roads than yesterday but we didn’t reach Rockland before one. The Samoset is 
lovely and we want to stay rest of summer!” 

 

Jul 22 – “Explored woods and shore about here. Drove over to Camden at four to welcome Mrs Daws. Finished reading 
‘The Country of the Pointed Firs’ this eve.” 

 

Jul 23 – “Lovely day sitting out doors and reading ‘Jeffery’. Had Mrs Daws over for tea and took her back.” 

 

Jul 24 blank 

 

July 25 – “Sunday. Isabelle in bed until night when we drove up to the loveliest little fir balsam grove on the shore 
toward Camden.” 

 

Jul 26 – “Foggy night but cleared so that we left Samoset at nine. Lunched by the side of the road – arriving in Portland 
(raining) about five. Congress Sq.” 

 

Jul 27 – “Lovely day in the woods. Followed the Ammonoosac up finding Twin Flower this morning. Afternoon in 
woods back of Mt. Pleasant House reading ‘The Pearl of Arris Island’.” 

 

Jul 28 – “Left Portland at nine – cloudy but clearing. Poland Springs charming! Luncheon Bay of Naples Inn (over 
advertised) Tea at Intervals. lovely ride to Bretton Woods. (Transpose with 27th)” 

 

Jul 29 – “Wonderful day of clouds! Left Bretton Woods at nine – stopped in Littleton long enough to telephone Anna. 
Luncheon Hale’s Tavern – Wells River. Arrived Woodstock four-thirty.” 

 

Jul 30 – “Lovely mountain drive thro’ woods with charming little brooks all the way from Woodstock to Manchester. 
Rested in our room most of day.” 

 

Jul 31 – “Very hot & glad to leave Manchester. Spending night at Isabelle’s friends house at Glen Falls.” 

 

August 1 – “Heat continues. Motored to Schenectady and took train. Could get no seats in parlor-car and had a miserable 
trip home!” 

 

Aug 2 – “Family arrived this morning safe but not sound. Dorothy has high temperature and heavy cold. Bartons and 
Reidpaths here for dinner.” 

 

Aug 3 blank 

 

Aug 4 – “John going to leave us. It seems he took unto himself a wife on our trip!” 

 

Aug 5 blank 

Aug 6 blank 

Aug 7 blank 

 


August 8 – “Church – terrible shower delayed me at Utica St. Luncheon at Theklas. Bartons with Everett Martin here for 
supper. Darwin decorated a cake for Uncle George’s birthday.” 

 

Aug 9 blank 

 

Aug 10 – “Fosters & Brewers here for dinner. I went down later to call upon Mr Will Lord.” 

 

Aug 11 – “Very pleasant veranda tea at Mrs Underhill’s for Mrs Pray.” 

 

Aug 12 – “Mrs. Dann and Dorothea here all day. Worked upon Maternity Kits for Red Cross. Drove latter part of 
afternoon. Hard evening – revolt of Dorothy. Isabelle ill with headache.” 

 

Aug 13 – “Luncheon at Munders for Mrs Pray. Isabelle not able to go.” 

 

Aug 14 blank 

 

Aug 15 – “Sunday – at home quietly all day.” 

 

Aug 16 blank 

 

Aug 17 – “Gave luncheon for Laura’s house party and other guests - very pretty decorations bachelor buttons & whites 
Wellesley colors” 

 

Aug 18 blank 

 

Aug 19 – “Lyon came this morning and we have had a lovely day at Niagara with him.” 

 

Aug 20 – “With Lyon more or less all day – reading to Isabelle between times. ‘I, Myself’ by Mrs F. P. O’Connor. ” 

 

Aug 21 – “Poured all day. Mr Martin ill. Mr Berry here for dinner. Lyon left this morning.” 

 

Aug 22 – “Sunday. church with Isabelle and the boys. Long nap this aft. Mrs Pray over this evening.” 

 

Aug 23 – “Lovely day out at Idlewood – Mrs Barcalo’s guests. Grandma & Auntie Margaret here for dinner.” 

 

Aug 24 – “Over at Nichols School superintending decoration of office walls.” 

 

Aug 25 – “Down town twice to-day seeing about furs etc. Everett went home to-night. Mrs Morey here for dinner and 
the night.” 

 

Aug 26 – “Very cold. Went to Munder’s luncheon given at the Park Club for Mrs Dold’s sister. Later took Mrs 
Severance and Delta to Automobile Club for tea. Mrs Pray here this eve. having musical talk with Dorothy.” 

 

Aug 27 – “The Joe Allens were here for dinner and we had a very pleasant evening’s conversation. Dorothea’s birthday.” 

 

Aug 28 – “Day given to Dorothy’s luncheon for Miss Jauch and the girls.” 

 

Aug 29 – “Dorothy and Mr Martin both away and we had a quiet, lovely Sunday.” 

 

Aug 30 – “Waited all day to go out and car wasn’t ready. Sent off clothes and did a lot about the house.” 


 

Aug 31 – “Sun out again and we went out to Idlewood taking Mrs Stevens and ‘Marmii[?]’. Family went to theatre. 
Thekla spent evening with us – loving the portrait!” 

 

September 1 blank 

 

Sep 2 – “Warm weather again at last! Had a lovely picnic with Fosters out on Lake Shore.” 

 

Sep 3 blank 

Sep 4 blank 

Sep 5 blank 

Sep 6 blank 

Sep 7 blank 

Sep 8 blank 

Sep 9 blank 

Sep 10 blank 

Sep 11 blank 

 

Sep 12 – “Sunday. Miss Heald here for dinner. Heyl Nichols for supper.” 

 

Sep 13 blank 

Sep 14 blank 

Sep 15 blank 

Sep 16 blank 

Sep 17 blank 

 

Sep 18 – “Mother & Marg. out for supper. Laura & her father went [with] us to Hubbell wedding. (This Isabelle’s day) 
We’re busy with errands and sewing for Dorothy.” 

 

Sep 19 – “Bartons in for Sunday dinner. Fourteen callers during afternoon ending with Roth family for supper.” 

 

Sep 20 blank 

 

Sep 21 – “Dorothy’s last day at home. Laura also goes this eve. to Simmons for year. Bertha married to Will Husted by 
Charlie at St. Bartholomews Chapel.” 

 

Sep 22 – “Isabelle resting to-day. I went down and selected new suits for Darwin with long trousers! Bought neck-ties for 
Herrick trousseau.” 

 

Sep 23 – “Luncheon at Park Club with Isabelle. Thekla (whom I had first been invited to hear play at her house) and Miss 
Hagerty. Later lovely call on Mrs. Goodyear.” 

 

Sep 24 – “Worst rheumatic storm ever had took cold on Mrs Goodyear’s terrace yesterday.” 

 

Sep 25 – “Feeling better and able to get up on couch.” 

 

Sep 26 – “Mr & Mrs M. at Dold Farm so had a quiet Sunday but for a few calls. Darwin in long trousers to-day. 72 mile 
an hour gale a terror.” 

 


Sep 27 – “Up to breakfast & had a walk but was quiet rest of day. Very cold only 50 at noon! Went in to see Underhill 
baby number three.” 

 

Sep 28 blank 

Sep 29 blank 

Sep 30 blank 

 

October 1 blank 

Oct 2 blank 

Oct 3 blank 

Oct 4 blank 

Oct 5 blank 

Oct 6 blank 

Oct 7 blank 

Oct 8 blank 

Oct 9 blank 

Oct 10 blank 

Oct 11 blank 

Oct 12 blank 

Oct 13 blank 

Oct 14 blank 

Oct 15 blank 

Oct 16 blank 

Oct 17 blank 

 

Oct 18 – “Covered window-box and that finishes doing over my room. Addressed announcements with Herrick this 
evening.” 

 

Oct 19 – “Lovely drive with Alice Kimball this morning ending with short call upon her mother. Alice Williams Sherman 
here for the night.” 

 

Oct 20 blank 

 

Oct 21 – “Ames, Ilsa & Frederic here for luncheon. Motored both ways to Bristol for Herrick’s wedding. John, 
Constance, Bertha, Mr Husted & Bobby & Lester came, also Ames family and Ruth Sherburne[?]. All, including H. & L. 
here at house after wedding.” 

 

Oct 22 – “Nice call this morning from John and Constance and Husteds before leaving. Ruth Sherburne remaining over 
day with us – nice girl, very!” 

 

Oct 23 – “Rested and picked up things for packing – again – also finished Lilians [ ]. Hear that Isabelle has been in bed 
for three weeks!” 

 

Oct 24 – “Motored to New Haven this afternoon taking Charlie down for Nat’l Council. Tom & Ruth Loveland went. 
Picked up F. D. C. and all had tea at The Taft.” 

 

Oct 25 – “Northampton at noon. Drove to Hadley after luncheon before D.D.M. left for Buffalo. Isabelle weak & 
looking terribly!” 

 


Oct 26 – “Sat out in the enclosed veranda of Alumnae House all the morning in the sun. Drove round ‘Dippy Hill’ this 
afternoon.” 

 

Oct 27 – “Heard Prof Palmer of Harvard lecture on ‘Puritan Homes’ at College this afternoon.” 

 

Oct 28 blank 

 

Oct 29 – “Have to give up our rooms in Alumnae House for two nights so took the girls and drove over to Deerfield 
where Isabelle & I are staying at Old Deerfield Arms – very comfortable house.” 

 

Oct 30 – “Went in & out of houses seeing the Industries of Deerfield. Especially enjoyed Mrs Gertrude Smith. Motored 
about Greenfield this afternoon & have had a lovely day.” 

 

Oct 31 – “Sunday – out all morning, visiting beautiful old church founded by Rev. Samuel Mather in 1676. Drove back to 
Hamp at 2.30. Heard Dean Brours[?] at Vespers on The Wise and Foolish Virgins.” 

 

November 1 – “Beautiful Week” 

 

Nov 2 – “Dorothy’s English class & heard music lesson to-day. Visited Harper Shampooing Rooms. Mary & Dorothea to 
dinner with us.” 

 

Nov 3 – “Miss Jordan’s class with Harriet [ ]. Pleasant experience at Library finding out that my companion from Lake 
Placid was Dr Lukas Eastman – Sioux. Calls on Mildred Howells & Mrs Houghton.” 

 

Nov 4 – “Left Northampton at 11, arriving at Hotel Somerset about 4.” 

 

Nov 5 – “Miserable rainy day. Mr. Ivanowski gave Dorothy sitting this morning. Isabelle in bed with headache.” 

 

Nov 6 – “Mr. Ivanowski here this morning. Afternoon tea over in Edith’s room. Eastman Weaver here for dinner and 
took Dorothy.” 

 

Nov 7 – “Sunday. Ivanowksis here for dinner. Saw Dorothy off at four and walked out to the Hotel.” 

 

Nov 8 – “Perfectly wonderful weather! Secured victoria and Cockney driver and much enjoyed long afternoon in The 
Arboretum.” 

 

Nov 9 – “Lovely drive in Brookline this afternoon – including Longwood and Chestnut Hill. Dined at Mrs Prays this 
evening.” 

 

Nov 10 – “Cambridge this morning followed by drive with The McKenzies. C.S. Meeting this evening and Evan 
Williams Recital.” 

 

Nov 11 – “Shopped for china, books etc. Luncheon at Parker House. Edith and Lyon here for dinner and the evening.” 

 

Nov 12 – “Rainy humid day. Spent most of afternoon at Cambridge. Saw Granville Barker’s production of ‘The Man 
Who Married a Dumb Wife’ and ‘Androcles and the Lion.’” 

 

Nov 13 – “Nice call from F.D.C. early this morning. Luncheon at The Farm at North Scituate. Mrs McIvestire[?] taking 
us! Great football day – Yale beating Princeton 13 to 7.” 

 


Nov 14 – “Nicest Sunday morning ever in Boston! Walked thro’ Fenway to Church of the Disciples and heard Mr 
Rihbany on ‘The Larger & Fuller Life’. Lyon and Ruth in for tea.” 

 

Nov 15 blank 

 

Nov 16 – New York Symphony Concert Mischa Elman soloist. Enjoyed John Carpenter’s ‘Perambulator Suite’ very 
much.” 

 

Nov 17 – “Mr Thomas serious illness makes me have Edith much on my mind. Down town all day shopping.” 

 

Nov 18 – “Luncheon with Edith. Drove to Arboretum and had tea at Edith’s; Laura joining there and here for dinner. 
Call at Wheelock School on way back with L.” 

 

Nov 19 – “Pouring rain all day. Had eyes examined and went Cambridge. Dorothy arrived for Game.” 

 

Nov 20 – “Beautiful day for Yale’s defeat by Harvard 41 to 0! Had luncheon at Mrs Thorntons, called on [Bac ] same 
time Hattie did! Pleasant home evening with Dorothy.” 

 

Nov 21 – “Our last Sunday in Boston has been a very lovely one. Mother Church this morning. Call from Eastman who 
took D. to train while we went to Kreisler concert. Mrs Pray & Benj to supper.” 

 

Nov 22 – “Cambridge this morning, and went over to Boston for few more errands. Lunched at Mary Elizabeth’s.” 

 

Nov 23 – “Left Boston at 12. Engine & baggage car separated from train delayed us an hour. Dorothy joined me at Sp. 
Arrived N.Y. at 8, went up and called on Christine Herrick.” 

 

Nov 24 – “Late breakfast so didn’t arrive at Westfield until noon. Spent all of afternoon - Dorothy visiting Mrs. Ball’s 
studio. Arrived at Hampton Hall for dinner.” 

 

Nov 25 – “Thanksgiving Day at Crawford, N.J. Sounds queer! Had early sittings and were back for dinner at Hampton 
Hall. Spent rest of day walking and playing Japanese Whist.” 

 

Nov 26 – “Dorothy finished sitting so we could leave at 1.06. Spent time in shops until D. left at 5.03 for Hamp. I spent 
my time quietly at Collingwood until I left for Buffalo at 9.34.” 

Nov 27 – “Arrived at 8.20, unpacked and got settled generally.” 

 

Nov 28 – “First Sunday back. Went to church with Isabelle and called on Mame & Bertha afterward. Munder & Mr F. 
out for supper.” 

 

Nov 29 – “Frida left to-day. Isabelle went to Mrs. Simpsons Class and I went for shampoo etc. Mrs Morey in for dinner. 
Barcalos called.” 

 

Nov 30 – “Mrs Morey’s & Mrs Staple’s papers on Shakespeare at The Club this A.M. Mrs. Simpson stayed for 
luncheon. Xmas shopping later.” 

 

December 1 – “Wretched day & did nothing but one trip down town.” 

 

Dec 2 – “Heard Dr. Brashear at 20th Cent. lecture on ‘Astronomy’.Came home & got dinner for Darwin while others went 
to Buffalo Club - Munder’s guests.” 

 


Dec 3 – “Mrs Bailey in for luncheon after [ ] operation. Made some calls later and went to Mrs Barrells to Directors 
Meeting.” 

 

Dec 4 – “Busy day at home until four when we went out and did errands. Mrs Morey had dinner with us and Mr Martin to 
us all evening.” 

 

Dec 5 blank 

Dec 6 blank 

Dec 7 blank 

Dec 8 blank 

Dec 9 blank 

 

Dec 10 – “Morning out at Ivanowskis not agreeable Dorothy’s portrait not pleasing. Beautiful vesper service at St 
Bartholomew’s. Home to-night.” 