 January 1 – “Westville. Come[?]. Rain all day. Anna wretchedly ill with grip. Wrote letters in morning. Massage from 
‘Miss Lucy’ – interesting Russian. Pleasant talk with Dr Skiff.” 

 

Jan 2 – “Still light rain and fog. Anna better. Came back to Hartford at five o-clock. Found lovely presents from Jenny 
Simpson and letter from Dorothy!” 

 

Jan 3 – “Rain continues. Hattie grippy and went to bed about noon. Tom and Herrick went back to college this evening. 
Wrote some letters and worked for Dorothy’s chest in evening.” 

 

Jan 4 – “Clearing and colder at last. Shopped this morning with Mrs K. for Young Women’s Society. Letters written this 
afternoon. The King family called this evening. Hattie in bed.” 

 

Jan 5 – “Hattie has temperature again to-day. Went down town this morning. Nice call from Miss Vanderbeck this 
afternoon. Evening with Lyon working on Dorothy’s towels.” 

 

Jan 6 – “Clear. Morning at church sewing. Dr Case here at noon – Hattie still so wretched. Afternoon went out to Miss 
Warren’s to meeting of Y.W.M.O. C.L. and F. all at Y.M.C.A. for supper.” 

 

Jan 7 – “Will and Ida sailing to-day. Lovely clear skies. Called on Buffalo Kimballs this afternoon. Fixed Lyon’s 
sweater this evening. Hattie sat up a little while to-day.” 

 

Jan 8 – “Sunday. Wrote Beau and Dorothy in morning after housework. Hattie down for dinner. Got the supper and 
went to evening service at Trinity.” 

 

Jan 9 – “Sewed in my sunny room all the morning ‘for the poor’. Made calls this afternoon. Play ‘500’ after tea and read 
Maeterlincks ‘Mary Magdaline’ – so wonderful in his portrayal of Christ.” 

 

Jan 10 – “Hattie improves. Received lovely letter from Beau – who has won the Rhodes Scholarship!” 

 

Jan 11 – “Down town this morning shopping for Young Women’s Society. Poured tea at Missionary Meeting this 
afternoon at which Miss Esther Henry talked upon Cyrus Hamlin. ‘500’ in evening.” 

 

Jan 12 – “Down town shopping this morning. Afternoon at home sewing and writing letters. Bouci[?] recital this 
evening.” 

 

Jan 13 – “Went to library to collect books to carry to Peekskill, and spent the rest of day in packing.” 

 

Jan 14 – “Left at 9.40. Spent day in unsuccessful shopping in New York and came up to Peekskill at 4.02. Percy Hazen 
spent evening with us. The most frightful fog all day ever saw.” 

 

Jan 15 – “Sunday. Peekskill. At home all day as weather is still damp and disagreeable. Lovely music with Bertha – 
wrote letters – Percy Hazen with us in the evening.” 


 

Jan 16 – “Odd jobs for Bertha all this morning. Called on Mrs Hazen Simpson in afternoon and her adorable baby. 
Terrific drop in temperature with high wind. Looked for Emma all evening.” 

 

Jan 17 – “Freezing cold weather. Sewed all the morning. Emma spent afternoon with us – Percy the evening.” 

 

Jan 18 – “Bertha in New York all day so I had housework and Miss Miller to look after. A long call from Mr Frost in the 
afternoon.” 

 

Jan 19 – “New York all day. Shopped – called upon Mrs Young Fulton – and the Misses Lewison, 43 Fifth Ave. Emma 
and Mr Bostelmann here in the evening. Lovely music!” 

 

Jan 20 – “Beautiful day. Called upon Mr Lent[?] in the morning. Received call from Madge Preston and got a lot of 
Buffalo news. Evening spent upon 136 articles!” 

 

Jan 21 – “Rain again. A bustling day in the sewing-room. Too tired to go with the others to Hazen’s for Bridge.” 

 

Jan 22 – “Sunday Peekskill – a quiet home day with dinner ‘across the street’. Bertha went off calling and I had a lovely 
time with Percy.” 

 

Jan 23 – “Preparations for Get Together Club which met here this evening. Major and Mrs Waters were among the 
guests. Nice talk with Mr Bucher who gave me valuable ideas on ‘The Dervishes’.” 

 

Jan 24 – “B. in New York hearing Sembrich – brought back lovely songs! Dinner & supper with Percy. Old[?] Alice 
here in afternoon – killing!” 

 

Jan 25 – “Sewed all day. Called on Dr Knight with Bertha in evening. Mrs [L ] died today – Mary’s birthday.” 

 

Jan 26 – “2nd letter from Mrs D. telling of Dorothy’s hard grippe! Gertrude and Hazen for night dinner and Bridge.” 

 

Jan 27 – “Warm wet weather continues. Mr Lent[?] here in the evening for ‘Hearts’.” 

 

Jan 28 – “Sewed all the morning. Out with Percy in the afternoon doing errands and at Gertrude’s. A quiet evening 
sewing with Bertha. 

 

Jan 29 – “Sunday. John and Constance came at eleven. Dinner at 1.30 at Harriet Stabbs. Music in the evening with 
Emma & Mr Bosalmann[?] during which Jenny surprised us.” 

 

Jan 30 – “Clearing. John and Constance left on eight o’clock train. Finished all my ‘chores’ for Bertha. A quiet evening 
before the fire with a warming wind outside.” 

 

Jan 31 – “Morning paying bills for Bertha and in the attic looking over my trunk. B. & I dined at Hazens. Decided to go 
straight home in the morning.” 

 

February 1 – “Left at 9.35 with beautiful memories surely of three weeks in Peekskill! Found Hattie entertaining various 
Pansy Circles” 

 

Feb 2 – “Rested hard all day. Ernest Nichols[?] spent evening with us.” 

 


Feb 3 – “Wrote letters this morning. Down town this afternoon. Spent evening darning gold thread into yoke of blue 
voile dress.” 

 

Feb 4 – “Rain – freezing as soon as it falls. Bertha sailed at 6 A.M. on this ‘Arabic’ Cruise. Charlie ‘all in’ with a sore 
throat. Ripped poplin dress of Ruth’s.” 

 

Feb 5 – “Sunday – Hartford. Church in the morning. At home rest of day writing letters and music.” 

 

Feb 6 – “A hard snow – the first of the season really amounting to any thing. Hattie in C. Falls. Charlie away all day at 
Ministers Meeting. Spent day finishing gold threat in voile dress.” 

 

Feb 7 – “Snow continued – no school. Much letter- writing – cards and music all day.” 

 

Feb 8 – “Wrote Bertha long steamer letter, also wrote Jenny and several other people. Young Women’s Society had a 
sociable at the church which was a great success.” 

 

Feb 9 – “Spent morning at Miss Wheeler’s school having been summoned unnessarily. Called on Mrs Kaufman in the 
afternoon and got my book on The Dervishes at Seminary Library.” 

 

Feb 10 – “Edith Hutchinson here for dinner. Young Women’s Society at Miss Robertson’s.” 

 

Feb 11 – “Edith’s friends, Miss Dow and Mr Becker, were married here at noon – with Miss Gay and the Samuel 
Huntingtons witnesses. Received telephone from Anna asking us to New Haven! Herrick home.” 

 

Feb 12 – “Sunday. Saw Mrs Willard Brown off with sick little Sarah Emily – also the bridal party. Took Mabel’s class in 
Sunday School. Edith Hutchinson here for supper.” 

 

Feb 13 – “Most of morning with Dr Case. Mrs Brownell and Mabel here for afternoon tea. ‘500’ in the evening. Mr 
Lymon in Chicago over Sunday – yesterday.” 

 

Feb 14 – “Snow. Pleasant valentines from Gracy and Molly. Evening played ‘500’ until 11.15!” 

 

Feb 15 – “Beautiful day but hoarseness kept us in all day and I decided not to go to Anna at present.” 

 

Feb 16 – “Beautiful sunshine! Spent morning talking Dorothy with Hattie after reading her long letter. Entertained Mrs 
Hunt and her sister and Fred Emery[?] this afternoon.” 

 

Feb 17 – “Knocked out all day by Dr Case’s remedy – though cold has disappeared.” 

 

Feb 18 – “Some better to-day – but no great shakes yet.” 

 

Feb 19 – “Sunday. Took Miss Vanderbeek’s class.” 

 

Feb 20 – “Beautiful snow-storm. Ames spent afternoon and evening with us quite unexpectedly. Brought us lovely 
carnations.” 

 

Feb 21 – “Word of Eliza Bayley’s death yesterday. Hattie not well to-day. Wedding-party at noon. Tom came at two for 
the holiday. Called on Mrs Thayer this morning and Misses Osborne & Henry this afternoon.” 

 

Feb 22 – “Beautiful day. Made crepe shirt waist. Call from Miss Wheeler in the afternoon. Dinner 6.30 at the Kimballs.” 


 

Feb 23 – “Tired – and rested all day. Roger came for a week-end and John went home after ‘The Birthday’.” 

 

Feb 24 – “Y.W.M.S. met with Miss Hunt. Came home early to meet Ames, Miss Mary, and Miss Foote at afternoon tea. 
Plans made for their going south. Rec’d letter from Mrs Ogden offering me position.” 

 

Feb 25 – “Morning shopping – mostly for a box! Afternoon sewed on yoke and sleeves for brown waist.” 

 

Feb 26 – “Very warm Sunday – temperature over 50 degrees. Pleasant call from Paul in the afternoon.” 

 

Feb 27 – “Visited box factory this morning. Afternoon given to committee meeting to prepare program on ‘Latin Lands’. 
Had to miss Dr Dresser at The Goodwin!” 

 

Feb 28 – “Hattie’s fiftheth birthday. Phone rec’d from Katherine about ten asking me to come to Milbrook. Left at 12.26 
for Peekskill where I spent night with Jenny.” 

 

March 1 – “Left Peekskill at 9.19 and arrived at Millbrook at 11.09. An interesting day at The Bennett School which I left 
late afternoon and reached Hartford at eight-forty.” 

 

Mar 2 – “Packed all the morning for Chicopee where I arrived at six. Supper at Ruby’s then down here at Miss Mary’s for 
a month. Forgot to check my trunk!” 

 

Mar 3 – “Mrs Thornton’s birthday. They all left for Phila at about eleven. Raymond celebrated by smashing the car! 
Taught Ilsa ‘Rum’ in the evening and we thought up Mother Goose.” 

 

Mar 4 – “Much telephoning about Raymond. Grace here in the morning. Heard from Munder about the lovely Easter 
plan in Boston! Got trunk all right. Charlie dining at White House.” 

 

Mar 5 – “Sunday – Chicopee Falls. Read ‘The Blue Bird’ with Ilsa this morning. Started out to S.S. with her and called 
on Grace and upon Alice Thomas. Evening choral practice.” 

 

Mar 6 – “Mame’s[?] birthday – a blizzard day. Good start upon The Dervishers. Called this afternoon upon Jenny 
Warner[?], Nell, and Mrs Stillwell.” 

 

Mar 7 – “Worked on paper all the morning. Called upon the Joe Herricks in the afternoon and did a few errands. Played 
‘Rum’ with Ilsa all the evening. Wm Loomis married to-day!” 

 

Mar 8 – “Lovely winter’s day. Wrote all the morning. Into Springfield for shampoo in the afternoon. Worked on 
Dorothys bag in the evening.” 

 

Mar 9 – “Nell and Grace called this A.M. ’Fessed in long letter to Ames this afternoon and called on Mrs Towne[?].” 

 

Mar 10 – “Went to Hartford at noon. After Miss Osborne’s funeral we prepared chapel for entertaining the young people 
to-night which went off most beautifully. Fifty were present.” 

 

Mar 11 – “Took Ilsa for a walk this morning. Went down town after my nap and finished Dorothy’s party-bag. Ilsa & 
Frederic went to Pole’s.” 

Mar 12 – “Sunday. Hartford. Took Ilsa & Frederic to Trinity. Then went down to Park S.S. Finished paper on The 
Dervishes in the afternoon. Back to C.F. at 6.3o. Didn’t find Annie so took refuge at Grace’s.” 

 


Mar 13 – “Walked down to school with Ilsa and came home by way of Nell’s. She came here later to read the ‘Lesson’. 
Rest of the day quiet for writing four long letters.” 

 

Mar 14 – “Due in Hartford to read paper on ‘The Dervishes’ but telephoned I couldn’t come because of my head and such 
diabolical indigestion.” 

 

Mar 15 – “A lovely birthday letter from Dorothy made this day for me all right! ‘Special’ from Dr Case. Calls from 
Laura [D ] and Alice Thomas.” 

 

Mar 16 – “Feeling much better. Drop of 36° and high winds made us spend afternoon at ‘198’ for warmth before an open 
fire.” 

 

Mar 17 – “Morning shopping in ‘Springfield’. Afternoon sewing! Ilsa at sociable in the evening.” 

 

Mar 18 – “Sewing and calls from Perkins Smith and Nell filled this day with ‘Rum’ in the evening.” 

 

Mar 19 – “Sunday – miserable, raw day ending in a snow-storm. Called on George Page and his wife in the afternoon.” 

 

Mar 20 – “Clear – went up to Nelli this morning. Grace with us this afternoon – read ‘On The Branch’ – and for tea.” 

 

Mar 21 – “Finished taking ‘Reports’ around and stopped in with my sewing at Aunt Sarah’s. This afternoon walked to the 
Chicopee Library.” 

 

Mar 22 – “Unseasonably warm – 60 degrees at 6 P.M! Afternoon in Springfield at Openings again. Bought Boston 
Guide.” 

 

Mar 23 – “Another drop of 40°! Called on Mr Hadley and [ ] Warner this morning. Rest of day at home sewing, 
writing, and playing ‘Rum’.” 

 

Mar 24 – “Bitter winds but walked to Chicopee bringing home Hutton’s ‘Landmarks of Rome’ & Victor Hugo’s Letters 
which I enjoyed reading in the evening.” 

 

Mar 25 – “Lovely day! Morning busy doing ‘chores’. Left at 1.40 for Amherst via Holyoke – a beautiful ride! Called on 
Percy and Madeleine. At the latter’s met Prof. Grosvernor and wife. Home via Hamp.” 

 

Mar 26 – “Sunday. Quiet morning until Ilsa returned from Springfield. Took a long walk alone when she went to S.S. 
Called with Grace upon Mrs Stillwell in the afternoon. Slept all the evening.” 

 

Mar 27 – “Talked over Mrs Foster’s letter with Nell and decided to give up Boston as too great a stunt conducting ten 
people.” 

 

Mar 28 – “Nell spent morning with us. Rested this afternoon for dinner at Mabel Page’s to-night. Ed’s 43rd birthday – for 
which Mabel had prepared a cake with candles etc” 

 

Mar 29 – “Discovered that Uncle Heman[?] Cooley – Grace Lyon’s great-uncle - married mother’s sister Ruth. Lyon 
came this afternoon while I was in Springfield shopping.” 

 

Mar 30 – “Called on Nell with Lyon and took him up East Street. Drove to Cemetery in afternoon also to call on Dr. Fay. 
Raymond Griggs here for ‘500’. Cards, singing & dancing to-night.” 

 


Mar 31 – “Lyon drove me up to see Alice Thomas who is sick with grip – then we had a lovely drive before he left for 
Hartford. Ilsa spent night in Chicopee. Telegram and letter from Ruby telling of Ames’ illness.” 

 

April 1 – “Day made very happy by a letter from Mrs Foster whom I shall see after all in Boston. Grace came in this 
afternoon. Went down town to-night – the moon & Venus!!” 

 

Apr 2 – “Bitterly cold Sunday. Walked down for mail and found nothing from Washington. Played for Nell at rehearsal 
in the evening.” 

 

Apr 3 – “Went into Springfield for errands and to dine at Mrs. Herrick’s. Came home at six with Ilsa to find telegram 
stating arrival of family at 10.40. A hustling evening!” 

 

Apr 4 – “Busy day making calls, packing and getting ready to depart. Hard snow came about five.” 

 

Apr 5 – “Very stormy day – and Miss Mary so miserable that I decided not to go. Ames in various times during the day.” 

 

Apr 6 – “Back to Hartford at 11.47. found interesting letters from Ruth and Bertha. Miss Hotchkiss here with her postals 
for tea. Much ‘spring ice’ here than in C.F.” 

 

Apr 7 – “Down town this morning making unsuccessful attempts for a hat. Mission Circle at Mrs Avery’s in the 
afternoon calling upon Miss May on the way home.” 

 

Apr 8 – “Sewed and cleaned clothes all day for Lexington and Boston.” 

 

Apr 9 – “Sunday. Church – Sunday School. Miss Brooks here for supper and music in the evening. Another [do ] from 
Dr Case.” 

 

Apr 10 – “Appointment with Miss Wheeler at noon with reference to a position next year. Called on Mrs St John in 
afternoon.” 

 

Apr 11 – “Ames’ birthday – busy day for me getting ready for Six. Attended Miss Muting[?] at Seminary Building 
where pictures were shown relating to Hattie’s and Mrs St. J’s papers.” 

 

Apr 12 – “Left Hartford at 10.45. Boston at 2.51 for Lexington. Miss T. met me remembering that ‘in 1871 such a train 
got her to Salem about this time and nothing changes much in New Eng.’ Supper and evening with them.” 

 

Apr 13 – “Beautiful day in Lexington with calls upon Miss Bacheller, Mrs Prince, Brown Goodwin, Emily Martin, and 
Mrs [ ] where I lunched. In afternoon called at the Tiltons & the Thorntons. Clarabel spent eve. here.” 

 

Apr 14 – “Lexington. A quiet morning with drive with E.T.T. and luncheon. Left and 2.05 for Boston. Found Mrs Pray 
with the Fosters who stayed all night.” 

Apr 15 – “[He way] Chambers. Boston. Children arrived at 10.40. Spent afternoon sight-seeing. An evening with 
Munder. Letter from Miss Bennett.” 

 

Apr 16 – “Easter Sunday. Mother Church service. Had table alone with the children including Fargo 

Balliet[?] Afternoon and supper with Edith. Evening of music from the children & talk with Munder.” 

 

Apr 17 – “Families left early for Wellesley. I shopped a bit and came home at 12. Ran out for an hour with Miss Mary 
and had a visit at store with Ames. Saw Ruby and Ilsa at train – 5.22.” 

 


Apr 18 – “Hartford once more. H. & C. left at 10.45 for Lex. Telephoned Anna who came at six and spent night with 
me.” 

 

Apr 19 – “Down to see Anna off at 9.40 and to shop. Ames came at six for tea and the evening with us.” 

 

Apr 20 – “Cold, rainy day. Busy with sewing and other preparations for Millbrook. Charming letter from Constance!” 

 

Apr 21 – “Shopping this morning. Charlie returned at three from Lexington reporting a beautiful time.” 

 

Apr 22 – “Sewed this morning. Calls this afternoon upon Mesdames Dixon, Grier, Camp and Weaver.” 

 

Apr 23 – “Sunday – last in Hartford I expect for some time! Sunday School. ‘Sam Bushnell’ here for tea and the night.” 

 

Apr 24 – “Called on Wiley, Howard, James Hotchkiss, Bradley – Plimptons and Miss Awen[?].” 

 

Apr 25 blank 

 

Apr 26 – “Bought rain coat and sewed rest of day until time for supper at Miss Henry’s with Mary Paige.” 

 

Apr 27 – “Hattie returned to-day. Began packing.” 

 

Apr 28 blank 

Apr 29 blank 

Apr 30 blank 

 

May 1 – “A family united once more.” 

 

May 2 – “Busy day doing last things – fitted to glasses etc.” 

 

May 3 – “Left Hartford at 12.45. Mrs Thayer coming to see us off with a bunch of violets. Arrived at Millbrook for seven 
o’clock dinner and free evening.” 

 

May 4 – “Millbrook and a stiff day’s work with most satisfactory talks with Miss Fisk. Dr. Frizzel and singers from 
Hampton gave the ‘program.’” 

 

May 5 – “Walked with Miss Green and Marva Hills in the morning – then free time until I served for Miss G. at four 
o’clock. Night for House Mothers meetings as evening was free.” 

 

May 6 – “Free morning. Chaperoned five girls to Poughkeepsie for shopping. Luncheon at five at Vassar Inn followed by 
a perfect ride home. ‘A Rainbow [ ]’ by Fifth Form in the evening.” 

 

May 7 – “No church on account of scarlet fever. Beautiful day. Music at Miss Suttlehaler[?] with Katherine at 4.30. Miss 
Burnett returned for chapel in the evening. Walked on campus with Dorothy M.” 

 

May 8 – “Very warm day. Inspected for Miss Green – also poured for her at tea. Took Miss Jenkin’s table for several 
days. Pleasant talk with Mrs. Merrill under apple-tree. Miss Comstock’s [ ] was this evening.” 

 

May 9 – “Room inspections for Miss Green and a day.” 

 


 May 10 – “Assisted Mrs Foot all day [ ] slips for May Dances. Poured for K. at four. Chaperoned at five a hay-ride 
and picnic supper at the old mill.” 

 

May 11 – “Boiling hot! Sewed all the A.M. Afternoon tea out of doors in front of the White House (Faculty Tea). Ball 
game between Third Form and Faculty won by latter. Moon – out of doors while Miss B. read aloud.” 

 

May 12 – “Aunt Sarah’s 80th birthday. Chaperoned with Mrs Stearns fifty girls to Tyrrell Lake for picnic supper. Storm 
drove us home early but it was averted & we drove longer.” 

 

May 13 – “At the school all day. Walked to the village in the afternoon. Fourth Form Indian Play given under the trees in 
the evening. Took Miss Green’s place temporarily.” 

 

May 14 – “Sunday – Millbrook.[NJ] Perfect day. Dinner with Ames and the Benton’s at Moores Mills. Vespers 
condensed by Mr Gilbert. Walked in the evening with Miss (Agnes) O’Neil – later with Louise Davis.” 

 

May 15 – “Regular programs – beginning with 7.20 inspection. Mr Charles Rann Kennedy and Edward Rickett guests for 
a few days. Miscellaneous programs given by them in the evening.” 

 

May 16 – “May Day! Ames with Bentons and “Miss Susan” my guests. Henrietta Bishop the most adorable “Spring”. 
Margery Baines the Queen. Fourth Form Play repeated in the evening.” 

 

May 17 – “’The Servant in the House’ read at intervals during the day by Mr Kennedy. Faculty Base ball game. Banquet 
given to the Seniors by Third From in front of White House.” 

 

May 18 – “A free day for me with nothing of special interest.” 

 

May 19 – “Feeling wretchedly from intestinal indigestion. Very hot weather with occasional showers. Miss Jenkins with 
us in the evening.” 

 

May 20 – “In bed all day – receiving delightful and devoted care from Miss Durkee. Cloths wrung[?] from alcohol and 
put over intestines with hot water bag on top a great relief, and a tonic [ ].” 

 

May 21 – “Better, despite the frightful hot and humidity. A nice call from Miss Green in the morning. Got up for 
Vespers. – Dr Gilbert talking upon ‘Ye are the salt of the earth’.” 

 

May 22 – “Took Miss Green’s day for her. My room 88° all day and the same this evening. Worst heat in May since 
1880. Miss Comstock’s protégé, Clara Weiss, gave musical evening – charming.” 

 

May 23 – “Much cooler during day until we reached a drop of 20 degrees. Morning with Mrs Foots putting away 
costumes. Walked with Mrs Stearns in the evening.” 

 

May 24 – “A lovely day! Morning with Katherine before her fire. Luncheon with Miss O’Neil. Great game between 
Faculty and Fifth Form. Received walking ticket from Miss Bennett. Evening full of lovely calls.” 

 

May 25 – “Katherine’s work for her all day. Lovely evening with Miss Fisk.” 

 

May 26 – “Perfectly wretched day.” 

 

May 27 – “Morning in my room. Afternoon in living-room receiving and serving tea. Taught Ella Downs ‘Rum’. Dinner 
& evening with Miss O’Neil until playing for dancing.” 


 

May 28 – “Sunday. Millbrook. Chaperoned to Dutch Reform with Mrs Stearns. Seniors entertained school in the 
evening with harp concert by Mrs David given before the White House.” 

 

May 29 blank 

 

May 30 – “Made costumes for Margaret Walker in ‘The Sands of Heart’s Desire’. Rec’d ‘bid’ from Miss Bennett to 
remain thro’ Commencement.” 

 

May 31 – “Drove to Moore’s Mills for to-night chaperoning Katherine Houk, Eleanor Taylor, Ruth Millikens, Helen 
Balfs, Louise Davis, and Elizabeth Warner.” 

 

June 1 – “Faculty Dinner – nearly froze! 7 P.M. Beautiful drive back to the school which we reached at 8.30. Served for 
Miss Green this afternoon. Senior elections to-night – making Katherine Pres. and Eleanor Vice-pres.!!” 

 

Jun 2 blank 

 

Jun 3 – “Morning spent in decorating living-room and library yellow lilies and yellow roses. Afternoon free – in my 
room. Evening Glee Club Concert in living-room which I heard with Miss Durfee. Miss Lillian Littlehaler a guest, also 
Miss Amy Murray.” 

 

Jun 4 – “Chaperoned at church with Mrs Steans. Dinner with Miss Green. Coffee at two-forty-five. Music by Miss 
Littlehaler, cellist, & Mr Rickett. Chapel at 6.30. Mr Gilbert giving Bacca -- Lovely walk with Mrs Merrill. 

 

Jun 5 – “Field Day – presentation of cups most thrilling experiences ever had! Saw a lot of Miss Murray who charmed 
with her Gaelic Songs in the evening and burning of peat. Miss O’Neils play a great success. Henrietta danced – Mrs 
Kennedy recited ‘Butterflies’ and Mr Browning. Mr K. read Blind Man.” 

 

Jun 6 – “Arranged peonies and iris. Musicals at 11 o’clock. Bispham[?] the star soloist. Commencment at 2.30. Dr 
Slicer, speaker. After diplomas Mrs Kennedy read from Servant in the House before planting the Ivy.” 

 

Jun 7 – “Packed all the morning and left Millbrook in pouring rain at four o’clock for Moores Mills where I am spending 
the night with Friend Susan” 

 

Jun 8 – “Left Miss Susan’s at 4.06 and arrived at Peekskill at six o’clock finding Jen in New York. It has cleared 
beautifully and is very hot.” 

 

Jun 9 – “Rode down to Nerplanchi[?] this A.M with Gertrude to find Old Alice. Gertrude with us all day. Went to Miss 
Miller’s this evening.” 

 

Jun 10 – “Boiling hot day. Jen in New York and I have given day to getting Bertha’s house in order. Jenny Rumsey 
Chase a guest at Jen’s. Nice veranda call from Mr Frost.” 

 

Jun 11 – “John and Constance up for Sunday – a lovely day with them! Bertha delayed.” 

 

Jun 12 – “Finished the house before B’s arrival at 3.08. Spent night with her – everything seeming quite as if she hadn’t 
been away except for the display upon Ruth’s bed.” 

 

Jun 13 – “Rainy day and a quiet one with Bertha except for a few callers in the afternoon, so heard all about her trip.” 

 


Jun 14 – “Left at 11.03 for Burlington. Delayed an hour and twenty minutes at Garrison. Molly met us with Henry’s 
family who also greeted a guest – Miss Reler[?].” 

 

Jun 15 – “Burlington Unpacked and settled this A.M. Mrs Wales[?] called this afternoon and plans are under way for a 
tea to-morrow.” 

 

Jun 16 – “Veranda tea given for Sara & Miss Peeler[?] the event of the day. The Underwoods, May, Fanny, Helen, Hallis, 
Julia, Harriet Richardson, Mrs Wales[?], Mary Benedict and Jane Wheeler came. Saw Charlotte later.” 

 

Jun 17 – “At home until after nap, then called on Hallie, Fanny Shaw, Mrs Benedict and Mrs Wheeler. Walked with 
Molly to see sunset!” 

 

Jun 18 – “Sunday – church and communion at College Street. H.F.W.[?] at dinner. Drive to Malletts Bay with Mrs. H. 
Alice and Molly. H.F.W. for veranda supper. Ada spent evening talking Goon Camp Bldgs.” 

 

Jun 19 – “Much domestic storming in Hagar household resulting in Lizzie’s giving notice. Mrs. Wexter gave us a 
luncheon – May, Lucy and Mrs. Wales other guests. Picnic supper with Henry and his motor out to Williston.” 

 

Jun 20 – “Morning calls on H.F.W. and Mrs Pease. Started with Molly at 4.40 for The Barber Farm. Charming Chicago 
guests here – Michler and Parkers – Misses Harvig and Carleton. Tom graduates.” 

 

Jun 21 – “Williston. Showery and cold so that open fires and Mrs Wilkins companionship are attractive.” 

 

Jun 22 – “Rain and cold continues and we are still lazy. Read Percy MacKaye’s ‘Anti-Matrimony’.” 

 

Jun 23 – “Dorothy rec’d her ring this A.M. Morning and afternoon both over in the woods to escape cool winds and enjoy 
brilliant sun. Walk in fern pasture wonderful! Evening on Mrs G’s veranda and down-stairs being ‘entertained’.” 

 

Jun 24 – “Morning in woods. Afternoon on Molly’s bed until time to drive her to station. Evening on veranda alone with 
Mt Mansfield until dusk drove me in to write letters. Powells here for dinner.” 

Jun 25 – “D. made ‘Sig.[?]’ sister to-night. Mrs Folsom’s 85th. Baccalaureate Sunday UVM. Quiet Sunday at Barber 
Farm writing letters all day. Evening at Mrs Scriburns cottage enjoying her charming old prints, furniture, quilts, etc. and 
Miss Harvig’s music.” 

 

Jun 26 – “Dorothy’s engagement was announced at Sig Tea. Burlington again this A.M. Ivy exercises, tea at Grass 
Mount and at Sigma Phi. Call from Evelyn Benedict before we went to Senior Prom which was most depressing.” 

 

Jun 27 – “Very hot day. Call from Dorothy this A.M. who showed me her ring, etc. Called on May & Mrs Slocum in the 
afternoon. Bed early to-night having tried to call on H.F.W & Lucy.” 

 

Jun 28 – “Commencement Day – saw procession with Harriet R, Helen & Molly. Pleasant greeting from ‘Benny’. Bed 
all the afternoon. Reception in the evening most delightful! ‘Ever fast friends’.” 

 

Jun 29 – “Errands this A.M. Call from George & Grenville, and upon Mrs Wales. Left for Greensboro at 4.50, met J. & 
H. at East Hardwick, and found Lyon here.” 

 

Jun 30 – “Greensboro Vt. House delightfully clean! Busy day settling. Long call from Mrs Ayer this afternoon. Evening 
alone – spent partly in sentimental musings in fire-light & candle-light while D. & others met Beau & East H.” 

 


July 1 – “Hot day and to-night sees us fairly settled and in running order. Mrs Howes came and we spent part of evening 
on her veranda and at the Dewhurst.” 

 

Jul 2 – “Hottest July 2nd in 33 yrs. Spent most of day preparing for veranda supper for the Lyman House Party. The girls 
stayed over night sleeping out.” 

 

Jul 3 – “97° here today breaks all records. Dewhurst girls remained all the morning. Kenneth spent evening with Frederic 
not arriving until 10.45 owing to lateness of trains.” 

 

Jul 4 – “Too hot to move. A long visit from Helen this morning. One also from Mrs Howes in the evening thus we went 
to the Demings for fire-works.” 

 

Jul 5 – “Same blistering heat - 92° in house. Paddled to village – Herrick, Louise & F.D.C. and heard concert on way 
home. Charlie, Hattie and Mr Howes came this evening.” 

 

Jul 6 – “Day of adjustments. Supper on veranda with just C. & H.” 

 

Jul 7 – “Cool, lovely day! Gathered fir balsam for Constance’s pillow – Dorothy finding me in the woods. First music of 
the summer at Mrs Howes. Evening with the Lawrences.” 

 

Jul 8 – “Called on Eliot this morning and on Snyder sisters and Mrs Lukins in the afternoon with Mrs Howes. Wonderful 
moonlight – on water with C. & H. and the Howes, Mrs singing.” 

 

Jul 9 – “Warm again. Service out doors down at the Snyder Camp. Lovely evening on the water with C. H. and Lyon. 
Louise spends night with me.” 

 

Jul 10 – “Dr and Mrs Salter guests at the Howes. Frightful heat. Charlie took me to village this evening – water like 
opals in brilliant coloring. Thunderhead changed into a pink poppy.” 

 

Jul 11 – “Too hot to do more than exist. Dorothy and Louise watched sunset here indulging in charming cloud fantasies.” 

 

Jul 12 – “Mrs Salter, Mrs Howes, Helen & Louise here this morning. Four hour nap this afternoon. Victor Concert with 
C.H. and F.D.C.” 

 

Jul 13 – “20° cooler in living-room to-day a blessing! C & I at Mrs Howes a few minutes before tea hearing ‘The [ ry’]! 
C. left for Hartford this evening. Music at Mrs Howes, Helen playing so beautifully.” 

 

Jul 14 – “Morning with Mary Bliss & her postals. Young crowd went up Barr Hill this afternoon. Lovely evening on 
water and opposite rocky shore with Anna & Miss Bliss. Dorothy spent night with me.” 

 

Jul 15 – “Delightful music this A.M. in absence of the [ ] on Barr Hill, with Dorothy and Mrs S. & Mrs H. ‘The 
Salutation of the Dawn’ wonderful! Paddled across to library in evening with Hattie, Tom & Lyon.” 

 

Jul 16 – “Sunday – late breakfast. Service at Mrs Mac’s conducted by ‘P.M’ perfectly lovely. It was followed by quite a 
musical program in which both the Salters took part. Louise here for veranda supper.” 

 

Jul 17 – “Got breakfast & much housework on a Monday morning. Hard rain both afternoon and evening.” 

 

Jul 18 – “Morning began picking peas – then had a lovely time with Mrs Howes first in our boat-house afterward in the [ 
]. Beach supper at Allen Camp with Anna & Miss Bliss. Music at the Bungalow.” 


 

Jul 19 – “Last morning with Mrs Salter. ‘The Lake’ the loveliest composition of all I think. Made pillow for Daisy 
Hagar. Pasture walk with Louise Avery. Evening looking at Mrs Mac’s house plans.” 

 

Jul 20 – “Tom’s 22nd birthday. Salters departed in the rain. Cleared this afternoon. Helen and Louise came up to take my 
picture. Johnson Concert with A.L.S. crowd.” 

 

Jul 21 – “Mended most of morning. Louise left at four for home. D. joined me on Mrs H’s veranda and later we went to 
sit on ‘Pilleas[sic] and Milisands[sic] seat’. Rowed to Allen Camp in evening. Robinsons called here.” 

 

Jul 22 – “Heavenly day! Golf Club gone to Burlington – breakfast with Mrs. Howes on her veranda. Library in evening 
and played for dancing at Mrs. Howes.” 

 

Jul 23 – “Beautiful day with soft fleecy clouds. ‘Sing’ at the Demings cottage. Got things ready for mailing for 
Constance’s birthday.” 

 

Jul 24 – “Not much doing to-day. Spent evening with the two Julias.” 

 

Jul 25 – “Mrs Howes called this morning to Cleveland. Called this afternoon with H. D. on the Robinsons – had tea. 
Spent the evening with Hattie at the Ayer’s dance. ‘Peet’ came for a week.” 

 

Jul 26 – “Constance’s birthday. Village this morning with Julia Deming. Village this afternoon with F. D. C. This 
evening at the Howes playing for Ralph.” 

 

Jul 27 – “Accompanied Ralph this A.M. Walked to the Landons this P.M. stopping at A.S.L’s[?] to plan for Allen supper. 
Rowed to their camp in evening. [B y] dance – much orchestra.” 

 

Jul 28 – “Called on Julia Bitting this A.M. Rained rest of day. ‘500’ in the evening.” 

 

Jul 29 – “Much of this day given to entertaining the Allen Camp at Anna’s this evening./ Great success!!” 

 

Jul 30 – “Sing at the Mass conducted by Mr Lord – Three sources of permanent happiness. ‘In tune with the Infinite’ – 
loving one’s neighbor, and loving nature. Late call from Dorothy on the veranda.” 

 

Jul 31 – “Warm, muggy day. Charlie came this evening – but without Ilsa.” 

 

August 1 – “Very humid. Called on Mrs Gillespie and Katherine this afternoon. Went to village this evening with 
Herrick and Mr Howe.” 

 

Aug 2 – “Lovely weather. Mr H. & Mr D. Cleveland this morning. Practiced with C. two hours this afternoon – new 
music! Evening alone but for a short hammock call from Julia D.” 

 

Aug 3 – “First full meal of 2nd planting of peas. Tried to get to Hardwick! Practice two hours. Walked over to Johnson 
recital and back with Charlie, Hattie and Mac Farland cat.” 

 

Aug 4 – “Played for Ralph an hour this A.M. Helen Mac here for dinner. Long nap this afternoon. Evening with Julia 
Demming talking girls schools in Hali’s ‘bower’.” 

 

Aug 5 – “Worked busily all day getting ready for Ames & Ilsa who came this evening. Julia with me on our veranda early 
in evening bringing sweet peas.” 


 

Aug 6 – “Miss Thornton’s birthday. C. preached in village. Sing at the Demming’s. small attendance on account of rain. 
Tea about the fire – Mrs Dewhurst came in later.” 

 

Aug 7 – “Morning on veranda with various callers. Social Service Symposium at Snyder Camp in afternoon. A part of 
the evening with Julia on her back veranda – the rest on our’s in moonlight.” 

 

Aug 8 – “Morning in the woods with Ames. Finished Constance’s afghan this afternoon. Frederic and Ilsa gave hay-ride. 
C. drove. Moonlight was heavenly – and everybody voted it ‘the nicest hay-ride’.” 

 

Aug 9 – “Morning with Ames and Ilsa in Hathaway pasture. Afternoon went over to woods on other side of lake with 
Mrs D., Beau, And Dorothy for picnic. Most wonderful moonlight night.” 

 

Aug 10 – “Morning with Ames fixing my tea arrangements. Drove in afternoon around lake. Johnson recital with him 
finishing with moon-light walk.” 

 

Aug 11 – “Rain – morning before fire, cards – knitting etc. Made calls with Ames later in day. Mrs Dewhurst played 
‘500’ with us in evening. Golf Club went to Barre Brig’s[?] machine had accident.” 

 

Aug 12 - “Mrs Howes birthday. Drove to East H. with Ames & Ilsa to see them off this morning for Littleton. Took 
hood to Florence Waterinan[?] in the afternoon and saw A.L.F’s Peter Pan addition. Evening at the Demmings.” 

 

Aug 13 – “Beau & Dorothy spending Sunday in B. Carried cucumber thro’ camp. Read Rising Generations articles with 
Julia D. Sing at Mrs Ayer’s, conducted by Franklyn. Played with C. this evening.” 

 

Aug 14 – “Warmer again. Edith has come. House-warming at The Lukin’s[?].” 

 

Aug 15 – “Spent most of day embroidering shirt waist. Rainy evening spent in music at Mrs Howes.” 

 

Aug 16 – “Cut waist for Hattie. Mrs Johnson & Mrs Dewhurst [ ] all the evening while Mr J. and C. practiced for 
concert.” 

 

Aug 17 – “Beautiful drive around Elligo to Hardwick this A.M. Afternoon spent in ‘bower’ sewing for Edith. Concert in 
the evening for most people. Julia and astronomy my pleasure.” 

 

Aug 18 – “Day spent largely in finishing shirt waist for H. who left this evening with C. for a week at Woodstock. 
Aquatic sport prize won by Lyon!” 

 

Aug 19 – “Rainy morning. Afternoon spent at Mrs Dewhurst’s listening to an acc’t of her work. Read ‘A Gentle 
Heritage’ to Edith this evening.” 

 

Aug 20 – “Sunday. Read ‘Lesson’ with Edith in ‘the bower’ this morning. Tom led the sing at Mrs Ayer’s.” 

 

Aug 21 – “Busy house-work day. Mrs. Luken’s[?] in the evening to hear Franklyn on ‘English Ballads’.” 

 

Aug 22 – “Team in [ ] [ ] to-day and won. Charlie returned from Woodstock this evening with them. ‘An unmarried 
ladies party’ this evening teaching Edith and Mrs D. ‘500’.” 

 

Aug 23 – “Mrs Dixon at Barton Fair all day so there has been much house work. Walked with C. Prof. and Mrs Howes 
in Hathaway woods. Wonderful sunset which we saw from canoe in the bay. ‘500’ later.” 


 

Aug 24 – “Bunch berry walk with Edith this morning. Mrs Howes composed ‘cello Opus No 1’ which C. tried this 
afternoon. Johnson concert with C., Edith and Mrs Dewhurst.” 

 

Aug 25 – “Edith’s last day. Finished ‘The Bluebird’ with her – and had another ‘500’ séance.” 

 

Aug 26 – “Got up at five to get Edith off this morning. Bed all the afternoon. Mrs Howes entertained this evening ‘for 
the birthdays’ and her mother’s wedding anniversary. Hattie returned at 9.” 

 

Aug 27 – “Charlie led sing at Mrs Howes. Mrs Dewhurst here for supper. Howes and Carters went later to the Farm to 
give them some music. Tom brought ‘Ellen’ over this afternoon.” 

 

Aug 28 – “Rainy day. Played with C. awhile after supper. Kissed my daughter good-night this last night of my year, 
called at the Demings, and hours to play ‘500’. Mrs Dewhurst here.” 

 

Aug 29 – “Found gladioli on veranda from Julia. Dorothy went gardening with me. Supper at the Dewhursts – music at 
the Howes – short because of Miller corn roast – and ‘500’ here. Mantel so beautiful with viburnae.” 

 

Aug 30 – “Old Folk’s Concert at the village this evening perfectly killing – ‘A memory’ worth the price!” 

 

Aug 31 – “Mrs Dixon’s last day – nothing of interest happened.” 

 

September 1 – “Our own Bridget to-day. Charlie and Hattie went to Burlington for over Sunday. At Mrs D’s a while in 
the evening while she made wreath.” 

 

Sep 2 – “Got Tom off on early train – then went to see Mrs Dewhurst off. In bed all the afternoon until time for short call 
on Blanche Brigham. Julia, Mary, and Mr and Mrs Howes on the veranda watching moon-light.” 

 

Sep 3 – “Sing at the Demings. Lovely moonlight night spent with Julia walking and on our veranda.” 

 

Sep 4 – “H. & C. returned from Burlington about noon. Drove to Hardwick with C. eating our supper en route and 
returning by moon-light.” 

 

Sep 5 – “Weather still cold. Came down with Esther to Mary Ward’s for a five days visit – finding her in bed.” 

 

Sep 6 blank 

 

Sep 7 – “Down town all this morning. Slept all the afternoon. Music and ‘500’ with the girls this evening. Reading ‘The 
Bluebird’ aloud.” 

 

Sep 8 – “Lovely walk with Esther out Summit St to Cannon’s[?] etc. Molly’s this afternoon and for supper. Mrs Ward 
very weak and ill.” 

 

Sep 9 – “Rain. ‘500’ with the girls after breakfast. Call from Molly who brought us grapes. Esther and I came back to 
Camp at 4.30.” 

 

Sep 10 – “Warm & bright again. Worked quite a bit towards closing the house. ‘Sing’ at Julia’s. Lyon and Herrick took 
us canoeing. Eliots left.” 

 

Sep 11– “House nearly closed to-night. Eleven cases of typhoid reported in the village!” 


 

Sep 12 – “Family off this morning. Helen D’s birthday – took dinner with her & Eleanor. Lovely day with Julia. Left at 
5.11 for Mary Ward’s again – this lovely quiet house!” 

 

Sep 13 – “Morning with Mary. Afternoon shopping and having hair washed. Beau and Dorothy here this evening. Terribly 
cold weather!” 

 

Sep 14 – “Took present down to Auntie Mia[?] . Called at the Voteys[?] with Anna. A simply perfect day!” 

 

Sep 15 – “Dorothy with me until I left by The Flyer. So late that lost connections and conductor stopped the train here for 
me. J. & C. here. (Peekskill)” 

 

Sep 16 – “Peekskill. errands this morning. Tennis tea this afternoon. Bridge this evening – Helen, Stabbs [?] and the 
Simpsons.” 

 

Sep 17 – “Sunday – Peekskill. Quiet morning. Fine duck dinner with Simpsons here. Long walk with Bertha. Evening 
singing oratorios.” 

 

Sep 18 – “Spent morning helping Constance with grapes after going first to Miss Miller’s and deciding clothes.” 

 

Sep 19 – “Bertha in New York all day. Hazen & Gertrude here for dinner – alone rest of day on acc’t of jellying going on 
at Gertrudes.” 

 

Sep 20 – “John and Constance at Gertrude’s all day. Slept all the afternoon. Mr. Sut[?] here this evening for Hurts[?]” 

 

Sep 21 – Mr. Suet’s[?] engagement announced today. Julia back to B. M. today. Spent morning stitching baby-blankets 
for Constance. Afternoon at Reading Club where Mrs. Post from Conia[?] (Harvey’s sister) talk interestingly on Turkish 
conditions.” 

 

Sep 22 – “Worked on dress for the baby.” 

 

Sep 23 – “Lovely talk with Constance! Library, and tennis tea in the afternoon. ‘Auctions’ this evening.” 

 

Sep 24 – “Sunday – went to cemetery with Hazen & Gertrude and drove twenty miles afternoon. John & Constance went 
back to New York at six – a lovely evening without them.” 

 

Sep 25 – “Very oppressive day – heat and humidity. Miss Miller here – much clothes. Dorothy leaving for Chicago I 
suppose.” 

 

Sep 26 – “Sharp thundershower early this morning kept us from New York. Clearing and cooler to-night – thank fortune!” 

 

Sep 27 – “Morning shopping in New York. Afternoon with John and Constance at their apartment. Beautiful Victrola 
records they have!” 

 

Sep 28 – “Sewing – sewing – sewing” 

 

Sep 29 – “Sewing – sewing – and more sewing.” 

 

Sep 30 – “Sewed all day until four when I went down for tea at the tennis courts and to the Library.” 

 


October 1 – “Sunday. Mr Edwin Sanborn – one of Bertha’s ‘Arabica bachellors’ here for dinner. Helen Husted brought 
her foreign photos late in the afternoon.” 

 

Oct 2 – “Another day with Miss Miller here. Got my white dress together. Evening went to The Get Together Club at Mrs 
Bakers.” 

 

Oct 3 – “Busy day doing last things with a lovely evening at the Fronts[?] enjoying Hal’s ‘Victrola’.” 

 

Oct 4 – “Breakfast at ‘The Raleigh’ and after a day’s shopping Bertha and I left New York at four o’clock – she getting 
off at New Haven.” 

 

Oct 5 – “Hartford Downtown with fur coat and hat-hunting twice to-day.” 

 

Oct 6 – “Dressed doll for the Fair. Made over furs. Finished brown house dress. Called on Mrs Hayden.” 

 

Oct 7 blank 

 

Oct 8 – “Sunday in Hartford and at home all day. Much ‘Iron Woman’ about.” 

 

Oct 9 – “Finished errands & articles for the Fair and fixing my violet gown.” 

 

Oct 10 – “Packed this A.M. for Buffalo. Went to the church & saw articles for the Fair before taking train with Charlie for 
C.F. Supper at Ruby’s with birthday cake. Lovely telescope experience – ride in with Ames.” 

 

Oct 11 – “Ida’s birthday and I’m in Buffalo. Buffalo at last! Drove around town all the morning. Chesters[?] here for the 
night. Mrs Foster and Mrs Martin called this afternoon. 

 

Oct 12 – “Visited ‘Plum Daffy’ this afternoon. Thekla & Jessie called this evening – much, much gossip and a lovely 
time! ‘Her flames never go out’” 

 

Oct 13 – “Motored all the morning with Will, Madame C. and her nurse. Slept all the afternoon and had a quiet evening – 
only Mr Good calling.” 

 

Oct 14 – “Down town all the morning – calling on Jessie a bit. Family went to the theatre and I slept – wrote Dorothy & 
Julia and called upon Miss Falkner and Miss Hoag.” 

 

Oct 15 “First Sunday in Buffalo. Service very lovely! Ed Tanner sang to Schubert’s ‘Adieu’ ‘O Lamb of God.’ Thekla 
walked hours with us as formerly. Jessie called in the afternoon. Supper at Thekla’s.” 

 

Oct 16 – “Heavenly day. Motored down the river – beautiful foliage. Music all the evening with Margaret.” 

 

Oct 17 – “Rain all day. Elizabeth Gusterie[?] called. Musical evening with Margaret again.” 

 

Oct 18 – “Lovely visit with Mams[?] this morning. Luncheon at Mrs Martins with Ida and Munder. Drive with the family 
thro’ Amherst Estates & Humboldt Park. Church in evening with Fosters. American 

[B ]” 

 

Oct 19 – “Called on Mrs Clifton this A.M. Tea at Plum Daffy – Mrs Martin taking out her sister, Mrs. Dold, Mrs Foster 
and Mrs Armstrong.” 

 


Oct 20 – “Plum Daffy this morning to clean up after yesterday’s spree. Made and received calls this afternoon. A lovely 
evening – dinner – at Mame’s and Bertha’s.” 

 

Oct 21 – “Anne Sim’s[?] 13th birthday. Anna came at tea – motored rest of morning. Bad day for Madame C. Afternoon 
most of it with Jessie. Played for Margaret this evening.” 

 

Oct 22 – “Service this morning – Anna, Ida, and I. Rained rest of day outside and in.” 

 

Oct 23 – “House morning with a few errands during which saw Constance C. Drove to Clarence Center in the afternoon – 
frightful wind.” 

 

Oct 24 – “Most interesting two hours at Franklin School this morning – and a lovely visit with Mams knitting on her 
jacket. Drove to South Park in the afternoon. Cards this evening.” 

 

Oct 25 – “Packed to go to Mrs Foster’s. Rest of morning with Thekla. Accompanied Margaret at Memorial Chapel this 
afternoon. Dinner with Munder and church - Ida with us. Haydn.” 

 

Oct 26 – “Down town this morning. Calls on Mrs Frink and Mrs Colson this afternoon.” 

 

Oct 27 – “Errands this A.M. after hearing the concert at the Lafayette School where we met Mrs Leming[?]. Afternoon at 
home. Evening with Anna at Miss Falkner’s – a glimpse later of Masquerade at the Seminary.” 

 

Oct 28 – “Morning at ‘29’. Thekla gave us a tea and read ‘The Happy Prince’ Miss Nrissor[?] accompanying – perfectly 
heavenly performance! Mary gave a Kgri[?] dinner at 6.30. Roger P. John R. Louise & Catherine.” 

 

Oct 29 – “James 16th birthday. Early service. Westminster a bit also and then up to Thekla’s for music. Afternoon with 
Jessie, and early to bed to-night.” 

 

Oct 30 – “At Ida’s nearly all day. Accompanied Margaret during lesson.” 

 

Oct 31 – “Dark and rainy day. Luncheon with Mrs White at Mrs Roger’s. Thekla here for dinner and Mr and Mrs Tanner 
in the evening.” 

 

November 1 – “Luncheon at Mame’s. Down town afterwards, then out to Idas. Too tired for church this evening – wrote 
letters, then to bed when I found the ground white with snow.” 

 

Nov 2 – “Mrs Martin came at eleven & took us to her house where Mrs F. joined us for luncheon. Later called on Fanny 
Wilkes, Mrs Neill, and Mrs Ogden whom we didn’t find. Home evening.” 

 

Nov 3 – “Mrs Rogers took us out to the Nichols School this afternoon. Heard Aldius[?] violin lesson then saw the school. 
Tea later at Mame’s where I found Mrs Eppendorf and the Kents.” 

 

Nov 4 – “Down town this morning. Lafayette & Nichols game this afternoon 6 to 0. Met Joe and his wife – also the 
Albrights.” 

 

Nov 5 – “Early service. Came home and wrote letters. Miss Crawford here for dinner. Evening at Thekla’s hearing 
‘Bergliot.” 

 

Nov 6 – “Went over to Ida’s and Mrs F. telephoned for me to bring her home for luncheon. 

Called on Katherine Ogden late in the afternoon and bade her good-by for her Cal. winter.” 


 

Nov 7 – “Down town – bought cross-stitching materials. Went home with Jessie to luncheon and stayed until Constance 
Churchyard telephoned she would come to call on me.” 

 

Nov 8 – “Morning at house. Alison Mann’s coming out reception at four with Ida. Church in the evening. Mrs Martin was 
here for luncheon.” 

 

Nov 9 – “Home all day finishing white dress. Dinner at Thekla’s. Mrs. [M ] sang in the evening.” 

 

Nov 10 – “At Mrs Armstrong’s this morning. Luncheon at Ida’s – with Plum Daffy immediately following. Dinner at the 
Parkers with Martins and Fosters.” 

 

Nov 11 – “Very warm – 76° . Dorothy spent day with us. Motor ride along Ellicott Creek and Niagara River. Many calls 
in the afternoon.” 

 

Nov 12 – “Great day of wind and rain. Used up from yesterday’s ride and called off ‘Buff’s’ dinner. Ida and Anna spent 
the morning with us. Worked on Angelico paper.” 

 

Nov 13 – “Mrs White’s 80th birthday. Busy with her tea all day. Very cold- mercury having dropped more than 50 degrees 
in twenty-four hours.” 

 

Nov 14 “Thekla’s birthday. Came here to Mrs Neill’s for a few days.” 

 

Nov 15 – “Went to 20th Cent. Club at 11. Heard Mrs Lucia Ames Mead speak on the Peace Movement. Mrs Will invited 
Mrs Mynter and Miss Williams to lunch with us. Thekla spent evening.” 

 

Nov 16 – “Talked with Mrs Neill all of the morning. Mrs Knowlton and Mrs Lemming unable to come so returned to 29 
Colonial Circle again in the afternoon.” 

 

Nov 17 – “Finished Fra Angelico this A.M. ‘Assisted’ Mrs Martin at her chrysanthemum reception this afternoon. – a 
beautiful occasion in every way.” 

 

Nov 18 – “Day of squalls. Stayed at home all of the morning. Made calls upon Mrs Steven and her friend Miss O’Connell, 
Mrs. Jos Allen and Mrs Heath.” 

 

Nov 19 – “Early service at C.S. Eleven o’clock at St. Paul’s. Dinner at Mrs Tanner’s. Five o’clock musical service at 
First Church. Evening at home and early to bed.” 

 

Nov 20 – “Constance C. spent morning with me. Mrs Fitch called. Spent two hours with Mame this afternoon then got 
Mrs White from Sewing Circle home, thus Mrs. F. from Dante Class. Snow was wonderful thro’ the Parks.” 

 

Nov 21 – “Shopping at Peter Paul’s. Met Mrs Neill and visited Seminary. Luncheon at Ida’s – Mr and Mrs Caleb there. 
Made four calls later and found no one at home.” 

 

Nov 22 – “Beautiful day. Luncheon at Mrs Martins. On the way home Mrs F. told me of Mrs Martin’s offer to me! 
Service this evening very lovely. Mr F. at Jury. Ida, Mrs F. and I went alone.” 

 

Nov 23 – “Home this A.M. Took the old ladies out to Ingleride. Lovely calls from Miss Mann and Mrs Will Allen.” 

 


Nov 24 – “Heard Violet play at Thekla’s. Luncheon at Westminster Linen Sale with Mrs Neil. ‘Heart to heart’ with Mrs 
Martin, then a short call on Mrs Armstrong.” 

 

Nov 25 – “Frightful blizzard. Chromatic Club where Thekla did ‘Bergliot’. Tea afterward with Mrs Knowlton and Mrs 
Leming. Dinner at Thekla’s.” 

 

Nov 26 – “Early service. Call on Constance who gave me breakfast. Home the rest of the day. Mrs Foster read charming 
Clovelly[?] story in the evening ‘The Revenge’ by Mary Shipman Andrews.” 

 

Nov 27 – “Packing and last things before going east. Mrs Martin called right after luncheon. Pleasant call upon the 
Parkers in the evening – nice talk with Mr Breed upon Burlington.” 

 

Nov 28 – “Terrible rain – but we did 20 streets[?] all the same. My nicest was calling on Clara Allen. Violets and pleasant 
telephone messages from Mrs Martin. Left at 9.45 P.M.” 

 

Nov 29 – “Shampoo & errands after breakfast at ‘The Massasoit’ - then letters – before going to Miss Marys. Walk this 
afternoon with Ilsa seeing Grace & Ilsa.” 

 

Nov 30 – “Thanksgiving Day Chicopee Falls. Miss Mary taken suddenly ill this noon broke up the day effectually for 
me. Charlie is spending the night with me though Miss Mary’s mind is now clear.” 

 

December 1 – “Much nursing and consultation to-day. Dr Warren found nothing wrong with Miss Mary’s heart.” 

 

Dec 2 – “Miss Mary doesn’t seem to improve. Ames came out and took us in to Springfield for an hour’s ‘rest’, and 
shopping this afternoon.” 

 

Dec 3 – “Sunday. Miss Mary very weak to-day. Ames took us to Forest Park this afternoon and we have had a lovely 
evening together. Miss Mary better to-night.” 

 

Dec 4 – “Installed nurse here this morning and left for Hartford at 5.22 having tea first with Ames & Ruby. Found 
wonderful letter from Mrs Martin!” 

 

Dec 5 – “Definite decision made to go to Mrs Martin’s January 1st. At home all day unpacking and planning for Xmas. 
Mrs Willard Brown and Sarah Emily called.” 

 

Dec 6 – “Down town all the morning Xmas shopping – home the rest of day working busily.” 

 

Dec 7 – “At home all day working like a beaver – nice call from Mrs Thayer late this afternoon.” 

 

Dec 8 – “Morning Circle met with our neighbor, Mrs Kaufmann. We put up lace curtains in the parlor which add a 
‘spiffy’ touch. Mrs Burton & her sister called.” 

 

Dec 9 – “Wretched day – but accomplished letter-writing and sewing.” 

 

Dec 10 – “In bed nearly all day. Charming evening with Miss Vanderbeck here – also Mrs Howard and Miss Cons[?].” 

 

Dec 11 – “Final word from Mrs Martin. Very sad news of Mrs Prince’s condition. Missionary meeting – 45 in 
attendance this afternoon. Errands after it. Did up Xmas gifts this evening.” 

 


Dec 12 – This day should be transposed with the preceding. At home all day scrubbing corset – finishing cross-stitching 
etc. Constance’s baby girl born to-day, never breathed.” 

 

Dec 13 – “Much sewing and writing.” 

 

Dec 14 – “Down town shopping. Lyon home for the night. Went to prayer meeting.” 

 

Dec 15 – “Finished Hattie’s lovely wisteria hangings! Young Woman’s Circle here this afternoon (13) and Miss Esther 
and Miss Abby here for supper.” 

 

Dec 16 – “Rain all day. Massage this A.M. from Miss Calion[?] - in bed all the afternoon.” 

 

Dec 17 – “Sunday. At home all day. Read ‘The Healer’. Trios this afternoon and Miss Vanderbeck and Miss Wheeler 
were here for supper.” 

 

Dec 18 – “Massage this morning. Called with Hattie upon Miss Lvonier[?] Mrs Wells and Mrs Haydon.” 

 

Dec 19 – “Much Xmas all day and finishing the down-stairs curtains.” 

 

Dec 20 – “Mrs Prince making marvelous recovery. Massage this morning. Herrick and Lyon home for the vacation.” 

 

Dec 21 – “Went down town this morning and had heart examined by Dr Abrams. O. K. Spent rest of day doing up 
packages. Had a lovely letter from Dorothy Martin.” 

 

Dec 22 – “Gasolined dresses this A. M. and mended. Rain most of the day but when it let up a bit went down town.” 

 

Dec 23 – “Massage. Mrs Prince died at 7.45. Got off rest of presence. Ames came at four and stayed for supper.” 

 

Dec 24 – “Xmas Sunday. Hartford. Church followed by Manger Service in the chapel. Had our presents this evening, 
Tom acting as Santa Claus.” 

 

Dec 25 – “Hattie and Charlie left for Lex. at 2.30. Wrote eleven Xmas acknowledgements! Rec’d boxes from Fosters and 
Martins.” 

 

Dec 26 – “Housework all the morning. Shopping for suit in the afternoon. Mr and Mrs Benj. Swift called. Mrs Prince 
buried today.” 

 

Dec 27 – “Fitting nine o’clock Sage Allen’s. Herrick left for Yonkers 9.40 to visit Miss Francis. C & H. returned from 
Lex. at 3. – reporting not very good news of Mrs Thornton.” 

 

Dec 28 – “Lyon went to Lex. for rest of vacation this morning. Shopped all the morning for waist and hat. Fitting this 
afternoon. Roger came for over Sunday.” 

 

Dec 29 – “Influenza – worse luck! In house all day. Made flannel waist.” 

 

Dec 30 – “Saw Venus at 5 A.M. Wonderful star! Sewed all the morning. A long call from Miss Vanderbeck this 
afternoon, who brought us duets. Frederick entertaining this evening. Ilsa here.” 

 

Dec 31 – “Sunday – Hartford. Packed all day. Left at 8.05 for Buffalo – Ames and Ruby waiting with me in 
Springfield.”