 

 

Transcription of A Line a Day Diary, Cora Herrick, 
1911-1915 

 

 

 

Creator and Transcriber: Mitchell, Anita 

 

Repository: State University of New York at Buffalo. University Archives 

 

Abstract: Transcription of diary kept by Cora Herrick. Contextual notes regarding the diary are 
included as an appendix at the end of this transcription. 

 

Extent: pdf/ 

 

Source: A Line a Day Diary, Cora Herrick, 1911-1915, 3.4, MS 22.6, Darwin D. Martin Family 
Papers, circa 1878-1935, University Archives, State University of New York at Buffalo. 

 

Preferred Citation: Mitchell, Anita, trans. Transcript of A Line a Day Diary, Cora Herrick, 
1911-1915. [Entry description and dates]. Diary in 3.4, MS 22.6, Darwin D. Martin Family 
Papers, circa 1878-1935, University Archives, State University of New York at Buffalo. 

 

Acquisition Information: Anita Mitchell, Darwin D. Martin House docent, gifted her 
transcription of the diary to University Archives in 2014. 

 

Terms of Access: Transcription of A Line a Day Diary, Cora Herrick, 1911-1915 is open for 
research. 

 

 

NOTE: Any marks within brackets [ ] are of the transcriber. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


 

 

 

 

Table of Contents 

 
A Line a Day Diary, Cora Herrick, 1911-1915 ........................................................................... 3 
1911 ............................................................................................................................................. 3 
1912 ........................................................................................................................................... 23 
1913 ........................................................................................................................................... 42 
1914 ........................................................................................................................................... 61 
1915 ........................................................................................................................................... 78 
MEMORANDA ....................................................................................................................... 94 
MEMORANDA at end of diary ............................................................................................. 95 
Appendix: Contextual Notes Regarding Entries in Cora Herrick’s Diary ........................... 97 


 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


State University at Buffalo Archives 

Martin Papers, Box 3, Item 4 

A Line a Day Diary, 1911-1915 

(Cora Herrick) 

 

 

1911 

January 1 – “Westville. Come[?]. Rain all day. Anna wretchedly ill with grip. Wrote letters in morning. Massage from 
‘Miss Lucy’ – interesting Russian. Pleasant talk with Dr Skiff.” 

 

Jan 2 – “Still light rain and fog. Anna better. Came back to Hartford at five o-clock. Found lovely presents from Jenny 
Simpson and letter from Dorothy!” 

 

Jan 3 – “Rain continues. Hattie grippy and went to bed about noon. Tom and Herrick went back to college this evening. 
Wrote some letters and worked for Dorothy’s chest in evening.” 

 

Jan 4 – “Clearing and colder at last. Shopped this morning with Mrs K. for Young Women’s Society. Letters written this 
afternoon. The King family called this evening. Hattie in bed.” 

 

Jan 5 – “Hattie has temperature again to-day. Went down town this morning. Nice call from Miss Vanderbeck this 
afternoon. Evening with Lyon working on Dorothy’s towels.” 

 

Jan 6 – “Clear. Morning at church sewing. Dr Case here at noon – Hattie still so wretched. Afternoon went out to Miss 
Warren’s to meeting of Y.W.M.O. C.L. and F. all at Y.M.C.A. for supper.” 

 

Jan 7 – “Will and Ida sailing to-day. Lovely clear skies. Called on Buffalo Kimballs this afternoon. Fixed Lyon’s 
sweater this evening. Hattie sat up a little while to-day.” 

 

Jan 8 – “Sunday. Wrote Beau and Dorothy in morning after housework. Hattie down for dinner. Got the supper and 
went to evening service at Trinity.” 

 

Jan 9 – “Sewed in my sunny room all the morning ‘for the poor’. Made calls this afternoon. Play ‘500’ after tea and read 
Maeterlincks ‘Mary Magdaline’ – so wonderful in his portrayal of Christ.” 

 

Jan 10 – “Hattie improves. Received lovely letter from Beau – who has won the Rhodes Scholarship!” 

 

Jan 11 – “Down town this morning shopping for Young Women’s Society. Poured tea at Missionary Meeting this 
afternoon at which Miss Esther Henry talked upon Cyrus Hamlin. ‘500’ in evening.” 

 

Jan 12 – “Down town shopping this morning. Afternoon at home sewing and writing letters. Bouci[?] recital this 
evening.” 

 

Jan 13 – “Went to library to collect books to carry to Peekskill, and spent the rest of day in packing.” 

 

Jan 14 – “Left at 9.40. Spent day in unsuccessful shopping in New York and came up to Peekskill at 4.02. Percy Hazen 
spent evening with us. The most frightful fog all day ever saw.” 

 

Jan 15 – “Sunday. Peekskill. At home all day as weather is still damp and disagreeable. Lovely music with Bertha – 
wrote letters – Percy Hazen with us in the evening.” 


 

Jan 16 – “Odd jobs for Bertha all this morning. Called on Mrs Hazen Simpson in afternoon and her adorable baby. 
Terrific drop in temperature with high wind. Looked for Emma all evening.” 

 

Jan 17 – “Freezing cold weather. Sewed all the morning. Emma spent afternoon with us – Percy the evening.” 

 

Jan 18 – “Bertha in New York all day so I had housework and Miss Miller to look after. A long call from Mr Frost in the 
afternoon.” 

 

Jan 19 – “New York all day. Shopped – called upon Mrs Young Fulton – and the Misses Lewison, 43 Fifth Ave. Emma 
and Mr Bostelmann here in the evening. Lovely music!” 

 

Jan 20 – “Beautiful day. Called upon Mr Lent[?] in the morning. Received call from Madge Preston and got a lot of 
Buffalo news. Evening spent upon 136 articles!” 

 

Jan 21 – “Rain again. A bustling day in the sewing-room. Too tired to go with the others to Hazen’s for Bridge.” 

 

Jan 22 – “Sunday Peekskill – a quiet home day with dinner ‘across the street’. Bertha went off calling and I had a lovely 
time with Percy.” 

 

Jan 23 – “Preparations for Get Together Club which met here this evening. Major and Mrs Waters were among the 
guests. Nice talk with Mr Bucher who gave me valuable ideas on ‘The Dervishes’.” 

 

Jan 24 – “B. in New York hearing Sembrich – brought back lovely songs! Dinner & supper with Percy. Old[?] Alice 
here in afternoon – killing!” 

 

Jan 25 – “Sewed all day. Called on Dr Knight with Bertha in evening. Mrs [L ] died today – Mary’s birthday.” 

 

Jan 26 – “2nd letter from Mrs D. telling of Dorothy’s hard grippe! Gertrude and Hazen for night dinner and Bridge.” 

 

Jan 27 – “Warm wet weather continues. Mr Lent[?] here in the evening for ‘Hearts’.” 

 

Jan 28 – “Sewed all the morning. Out with Percy in the afternoon doing errands and at Gertrude’s. A quiet evening 
sewing with Bertha. 

 

Jan 29 – “Sunday. John and Constance came at eleven. Dinner at 1.30 at Harriet Stabbs. Music in the evening with 
Emma & Mr Bosalmann[?] during which Jenny surprised us.” 

 

Jan 30 – “Clearing. John and Constance left on eight o’clock train. Finished all my ‘chores’ for Bertha. A quiet evening 
before the fire with a warming wind outside.” 

 

Jan 31 – “Morning paying bills for Bertha and in the attic looking over my trunk. B. & I dined at Hazens. Decided to go 
straight home in the morning.” 

 

February 1 – “Left at 9.35 with beautiful memories surely of three weeks in Peekskill! Found Hattie entertaining various 
Pansy Circles” 

 

Feb 2 – “Rested hard all day. Ernest Nichols[?] spent evening with us.” 

 


Feb 3 – “Wrote letters this morning. Down town this afternoon. Spent evening darning gold thread into yoke of blue 
voile dress.” 

 

Feb 4 – “Rain – freezing as soon as it falls. Bertha sailed at 6 A.M. on this ‘Arabic’ Cruise. Charlie ‘all in’ with a sore 
throat. Ripped poplin dress of Ruth’s.” 

 

Feb 5 – “Sunday – Hartford. Church in the morning. At home rest of day writing letters and music.” 

 

Feb 6 – “A hard snow – the first of the season really amounting to any thing. Hattie in C. Falls. Charlie away all day at 
Ministers Meeting. Spent day finishing gold threat in voile dress.” 

 

Feb 7 – “Snow continued – no school. Much letter- writing – cards and music all day.” 

 

Feb 8 – “Wrote Bertha long steamer letter, also wrote Jenny and several other people. Young Women’s Society had a 
sociable at the church which was a great success.” 

 

Feb 9 – “Spent morning at Miss Wheeler’s school having been summoned unnessarily. Called on Mrs Kaufman in the 
afternoon and got my book on The Dervishes at Seminary Library.” 

 

Feb 10 – “Edith Hutchinson here for dinner. Young Women’s Society at Miss Robertson’s.” 

 

Feb 11 – “Edith’s friends, Miss Dow and Mr Becker, were married here at noon – with Miss Gay and the Samuel 
Huntingtons witnesses. Received telephone from Anna asking us to New Haven! Herrick home.” 

 

Feb 12 – “Sunday. Saw Mrs Willard Brown off with sick little Sarah Emily – also the bridal party. Took Mabel’s class in 
Sunday School. Edith Hutchinson here for supper.” 

 

Feb 13 – “Most of morning with Dr Case. Mrs Brownell and Mabel here for afternoon tea. ‘500’ in the evening. Mr 
Lymon in Chicago over Sunday – yesterday.” 

 

Feb 14 – “Snow. Pleasant valentines from Gracy and Molly. Evening played ‘500’ until 11.15!” 

 

Feb 15 – “Beautiful day but hoarseness kept us in all day and I decided not to go to Anna at present.” 

 

Feb 16 – “Beautiful sunshine! Spent morning talking Dorothy with Hattie after reading her long letter. Entertained Mrs 
Hunt and her sister and Fred Emery[?] this afternoon.” 

 

Feb 17 – “Knocked out all day by Dr Case’s remedy – though cold has disappeared.” 

 

Feb 18 – “Some better to-day – but no great shakes yet.” 

 

Feb 19 – “Sunday. Took Miss Vanderbeek’s class.” 

 

Feb 20 – “Beautiful snow-storm. Ames spent afternoon and evening with us quite unexpectedly. Brought us lovely 
carnations.” 

 

Feb 21 – “Word of Eliza Bayley’s death yesterday. Hattie not well to-day. Wedding-party at noon. Tom came at two for 
the holiday. Called on Mrs Thayer this morning and Misses Osborne & Henry this afternoon.” 

 

Feb 22 – “Beautiful day. Made crepe shirt waist. Call from Miss Wheeler in the afternoon. Dinner 6.30 at the Kimballs.” 


 

Feb 23 – “Tired – and rested all day. Roger came for a week-end and John went home after ‘The Birthday’.” 

 

Feb 24 – “Y.W.M.S. met with Miss Hunt. Came home early to meet Ames, Miss Mary, and Miss Foote at afternoon tea. 
Plans made for their going south. Rec’d letter from Mrs Ogden offering me position.” 

 

Feb 25 – “Morning shopping – mostly for a box! Afternoon sewed on yoke and sleeves for brown waist.” 

 

Feb 26 – “Very warm Sunday – temperature over 50 degrees. Pleasant call from Paul in the afternoon.” 

 

Feb 27 – “Visited box factory this morning. Afternoon given to committee meeting to prepare program on ‘Latin Lands’. 
Had to miss Dr Dresser at The Goodwin!” 

 

Feb 28 – “Hattie’s fiftheth birthday. Phone rec’d from Katherine about ten asking me to come to Milbrook. Left at 12.26 
for Peekskill where I spent night with Jenny.” 

 

March 1 – “Left Peekskill at 9.19 and arrived at Millbrook at 11.09. An interesting day at The Bennett School which I left 
late afternoon and reached Hartford at eight-forty.” 

 

Mar 2 – “Packed all the morning for Chicopee where I arrived at six. Supper at Ruby’s then down here at Miss Mary’s for 
a month. Forgot to check my trunk!” 

 

Mar 3 – “Mrs Thornton’s birthday. They all left for Phila at about eleven. Raymond celebrated by smashing the car! 
Taught Ilsa ‘Rum’ in the evening and we thought up Mother Goose.” 

 

Mar 4 – “Much telephoning about Raymond. Grace here in the morning. Heard from Munder about the lovely Easter 
plan in Boston! Got trunk all right. Charlie dining at White House.” 

 

Mar 5 – “Sunday – Chicopee Falls. Read ‘The Blue Bird’ with Ilsa this morning. Started out to S.S. with her and called 
on Grace and upon Alice Thomas. Evening choral practice.” 

 

Mar 6 – “Mame’s[?] birthday – a blizzard day. Good start upon The Dervishers. Called this afternoon upon Jenny 
Warner[?], Nell, and Mrs Stillwell.” 

 

Mar 7 – “Worked on paper all the morning. Called upon the Joe Herricks in the afternoon and did a few errands. Played 
‘Rum’ with Ilsa all the evening. Wm Loomis married to-day!” 

 

Mar 8 – “Lovely winter’s day. Wrote all the morning. Into Springfield for shampoo in the afternoon. Worked on 
Dorothys bag in the evening.” 

 

Mar 9 – “Nell and Grace called this A.M. ’Fessed in long letter to Ames this afternoon and called on Mrs Towne[?].” 

 

Mar 10 – “Went to Hartford at noon. After Miss Osborne’s funeral we prepared chapel for entertaining the young people 
to-night which went off most beautifully. Fifty were present.” 

 

Mar 11 – “Took Ilsa for a walk this morning. Went down town after my nap and finished Dorothy’s party-bag. Ilsa & 
Frederic went to Pole’s.” 

Mar 12 – “Sunday. Hartford. Took Ilsa & Frederic to Trinity. Then went down to Park S.S. Finished paper on The 
Dervishes in the afternoon. Back to C.F. at 6.3o. Didn’t find Annie so took refuge at Grace’s.” 

 


Mar 13 – “Walked down to school with Ilsa and came home by way of Nell’s. She came here later to read the ‘Lesson’. 
Rest of the day quiet for writing four long letters.” 

 

Mar 14 – “Due in Hartford to read paper on ‘The Dervishes’ but telephoned I couldn’t come because of my head and such 
diabolical indigestion.” 

 

Mar 15 – “A lovely birthday letter from Dorothy made this day for me all right! ‘Special’ from Dr Case. Calls from 
Laura [D ] and Alice Thomas.” 

 

Mar 16 – “Feeling much better. Drop of 36° and high winds made us spend afternoon at ‘198’ for warmth before an open 
fire.” 

 

Mar 17 – “Morning shopping in ‘Springfield’. Afternoon sewing! Ilsa at sociable in the evening.” 

 

Mar 18 – “Sewing and calls from Perkins Smith and Nell filled this day with ‘Rum’ in the evening.” 

 

Mar 19 – “Sunday – miserable, raw day ending in a snow-storm. Called on George Page and his wife in the afternoon.” 

 

Mar 20 – “Clear – went up to Nelli this morning. Grace with us this afternoon – read ‘On The Branch’ – and for tea.” 

 

Mar 21 – “Finished taking ‘Reports’ around and stopped in with my sewing at Aunt Sarah’s. This afternoon walked to the 
Chicopee Library.” 

 

Mar 22 – “Unseasonably warm – 60 degrees at 6 P.M! Afternoon in Springfield at Openings again. Bought Boston 
Guide.” 

 

Mar 23 – “Another drop of 40°! Called on Mr Hadley and [ ] Warner this morning. Rest of day at home sewing, 
writing, and playing ‘Rum’.” 

 

Mar 24 – “Bitter winds but walked to Chicopee bringing home Hutton’s ‘Landmarks of Rome’ & Victor Hugo’s Letters 
which I enjoyed reading in the evening.” 

 

Mar 25 – “Lovely day! Morning busy doing ‘chores’. Left at 1.40 for Amherst via Holyoke – a beautiful ride! Called on 
Percy and Madeleine. At the latter’s met Prof. Grosvernor and wife. Home via Hamp.” 

 

Mar 26 – “Sunday. Quiet morning until Ilsa returned from Springfield. Took a long walk alone when she went to S.S. 
Called with Grace upon Mrs Stillwell in the afternoon. Slept all the evening.” 

 

Mar 27 – “Talked over Mrs Foster’s letter with Nell and decided to give up Boston as too great a stunt conducting ten 
people.” 

 

Mar 28 – “Nell spent morning with us. Rested this afternoon for dinner at Mabel Page’s to-night. Ed’s 43rd birthday – for 
which Mabel had prepared a cake with candles etc” 

 

Mar 29 – “Discovered that Uncle Heman[?] Cooley – Grace Lyon’s great-uncle - married mother’s sister Ruth. Lyon 
came this afternoon while I was in Springfield shopping.” 

 

Mar 30 – “Called on Nell with Lyon and took him up East Street. Drove to Cemetery in afternoon also to call on Dr. Fay. 
Raymond Griggs here for ‘500’. Cards, singing & dancing to-night.” 

 


Mar 31 – “Lyon drove me up to see Alice Thomas who is sick with grip – then we had a lovely drive before he left for 
Hartford. Ilsa spent night in Chicopee. Telegram and letter from Ruby telling of Ames’ illness.” 

 

April 1 – “Day made very happy by a letter from Mrs Foster whom I shall see after all in Boston. Grace came in this 
afternoon. Went down town to-night – the moon & Venus!!” 

 

Apr 2 – “Bitterly cold Sunday. Walked down for mail and found nothing from Washington. Played for Nell at rehearsal 
in the evening.” 

 

Apr 3 – “Went into Springfield for errands and to dine at Mrs. Herrick’s. Came home at six with Ilsa to find telegram 
stating arrival of family at 10.40. A hustling evening!” 

 

Apr 4 – “Busy day making calls, packing and getting ready to depart. Hard snow came about five.” 

 

Apr 5 – “Very stormy day – and Miss Mary so miserable that I decided not to go. Ames in various times during the day.” 

 

Apr 6 – “Back to Hartford at 11.47. found interesting letters from Ruth and Bertha. Miss Hotchkiss here with her postals 
for tea. Much ‘spring ice’ here than in C.F.” 

 

Apr 7 – “Down town this morning making unsuccessful attempts for a hat. Mission Circle at Mrs Avery’s in the 
afternoon calling upon Miss May on the way home.” 

 

Apr 8 – “Sewed and cleaned clothes all day for Lexington and Boston.” 

 

Apr 9 – “Sunday. Church – Sunday School. Miss Brooks here for supper and music in the evening. Another [do ] from 
Dr Case.” 

 

Apr 10 – “Appointment with Miss Wheeler at noon with reference to a position next year. Called on Mrs St John in 
afternoon.” 

 

Apr 11 – “Ames’ birthday – busy day for me getting ready for Six. Attended Miss Muting[?] at Seminary Building 
where pictures were shown relating to Hattie’s and Mrs St. J’s papers.” 

 

Apr 12 – “Left Hartford at 10.45. Boston at 2.51 for Lexington. Miss T. met me remembering that ‘in 1871 such a train 
got her to Salem about this time and nothing changes much in New Eng.’ Supper and evening with them.” 

 

Apr 13 – “Beautiful day in Lexington with calls upon Miss Bacheller, Mrs Prince, Brown Goodwin, Emily Martin, and 
Mrs [ ] where I lunched. In afternoon called at the Tiltons & the Thorntons. Clarabel spent eve. here.” 

 

Apr 14 – “Lexington. A quiet morning with drive with E.T.T. and luncheon. Left and 2.05 for Boston. Found Mrs Pray 
with the Fosters who stayed all night.” 

Apr 15 – “[He way] Chambers. Boston. Children arrived at 10.40. Spent afternoon sight-seeing. An evening with 
Munder. Letter from Miss Bennett.” 

 

Apr 16 – “Easter Sunday. Mother Church service. Had table alone with the children including Fargo 

Balliet[?] Afternoon and supper with Edith. Evening of music from the children & talk with Munder.” 

 

Apr 17 – “Families left early for Wellesley. I shopped a bit and came home at 12. Ran out for an hour with Miss Mary 
and had a visit at store with Ames. Saw Ruby and Ilsa at train – 5.22.” 

 


Apr 18 – “Hartford once more. H. & C. left at 10.45 for Lex. Telephoned Anna who came at six and spent night with 
me.” 

 

Apr 19 – “Down to see Anna off at 9.40 and to shop. Ames came at six for tea and the evening with us.” 

 

Apr 20 – “Cold, rainy day. Busy with sewing and other preparations for Millbrook. Charming letter from Constance!” 

 

Apr 21 – “Shopping this morning. Charlie returned at three from Lexington reporting a beautiful time.” 

 

Apr 22 – “Sewed this morning. Calls this afternoon upon Mesdames Dixon, Grier, Camp and Weaver.” 

 

Apr 23 – “Sunday – last in Hartford I expect for some time! Sunday School. ‘Sam Bushnell’ here for tea and the night.” 

 

Apr 24 – “Called on Wiley, Howard, James Hotchkiss, Bradley – Plimptons and Miss Awen[?].” 

 

Apr 25 blank 

 

Apr 26 – “Bought rain coat and sewed rest of day until time for supper at Miss Henry’s with Mary Paige.” 

 

Apr 27 – “Hattie returned to-day. Began packing.” 

 

Apr 28 blank 

Apr 29 blank 

Apr 30 blank 

 

May 1 – “A family united once more.” 

 

May 2 – “Busy day doing last things – fitted to glasses etc.” 

 

May 3 – “Left Hartford at 12.45. Mrs Thayer coming to see us off with a bunch of violets. Arrived at Millbrook for seven 
o’clock dinner and free evening.” 

 

May 4 – “Millbrook and a stiff day’s work with most satisfactory talks with Miss Fisk. Dr. Frizzel and singers from 
Hampton gave the ‘program.’” 

 

May 5 – “Walked with Miss Green and Marva Hills in the morning – then free time until I served for Miss G. at four 
o’clock. Night for House Mothers meetings as evening was free.” 

 

May 6 – “Free morning. Chaperoned five girls to Poughkeepsie for shopping. Luncheon at five at Vassar Inn followed by 
a perfect ride home. ‘A Rainbow [ ]’ by Fifth Form in the evening.” 

 

May 7 – “No church on account of scarlet fever. Beautiful day. Music at Miss Suttlehaler[?] with Katherine at 4.30. Miss 
Burnett returned for chapel in the evening. Walked on campus with Dorothy M.” 

 

May 8 – “Very warm day. Inspected for Miss Green – also poured for her at tea. Took Miss Jenkin’s table for several 
days. Pleasant talk with Mrs. Merrill under apple-tree. Miss Comstock’s [ ] was this evening.” 

 

May 9 – “Room inspections for Miss Green and a day.” 

 


 May 10 – “Assisted Mrs Foot all day [ ] slips for May Dances. Poured for K. at four. Chaperoned at five a hay-ride 
and picnic supper at the old mill.” 

 

May 11 – “Boiling hot! Sewed all the A.M. Afternoon tea out of doors in front of the White House (Faculty Tea). Ball 
game between Third Form and Faculty won by latter. Moon – out of doors while Miss B. read aloud.” 

 

May 12 – “Aunt Sarah’s 80th birthday. Chaperoned with Mrs Stearns fifty girls to Tyrrell Lake for picnic supper. Storm 
drove us home early but it was averted & we drove longer.” 

 

May 13 – “At the school all day. Walked to the village in the afternoon. Fourth Form Indian Play given under the trees in 
the evening. Took Miss Green’s place temporarily.” 

 

May 14 – “Sunday – Millbrook.[NJ] Perfect day. Dinner with Ames and the Benton’s at Moores Mills. Vespers 
condensed by Mr Gilbert. Walked in the evening with Miss (Agnes) O’Neil – later with Louise Davis.” 

 

May 15 – “Regular programs – beginning with 7.20 inspection. Mr Charles Rann Kennedy and Edward Rickett guests for 
a few days. Miscellaneous programs given by them in the evening.” 

 

May 16 – “May Day! Ames with Bentons and “Miss Susan” my guests. Henrietta Bishop the most adorable “Spring”. 
Margery Baines the Queen. Fourth Form Play repeated in the evening.” 

 

May 17 – “’The Servant in the House’ read at intervals during the day by Mr Kennedy. Faculty Base ball game. Banquet 
given to the Seniors by Third From in front of White House.” 

 

May 18 – “A free day for me with nothing of special interest.” 

 

May 19 – “Feeling wretchedly from intestinal indigestion. Very hot weather with occasional showers. Miss Jenkins with 
us in the evening.” 

 

May 20 – “In bed all day – receiving delightful and devoted care from Miss Durkee. Cloths wrung[?] from alcohol and 
put over intestines with hot water bag on top a great relief, and a tonic [ ].” 

 

May 21 – “Better, despite the frightful hot and humidity. A nice call from Miss Green in the morning. Got up for 
Vespers. – Dr Gilbert talking upon ‘Ye are the salt of the earth’.” 

 

May 22 – “Took Miss Green’s day for her. My room 88° all day and the same this evening. Worst heat in May since 
1880. Miss Comstock’s protégé, Clara Weiss, gave musical evening – charming.” 

 

May 23 – “Much cooler during day until we reached a drop of 20 degrees. Morning with Mrs Foots putting away 
costumes. Walked with Mrs Stearns in the evening.” 

 

May 24 – “A lovely day! Morning with Katherine before her fire. Luncheon with Miss O’Neil. Great game between 
Faculty and Fifth Form. Received walking ticket from Miss Bennett. Evening full of lovely calls.” 

 

May 25 – “Katherine’s work for her all day. Lovely evening with Miss Fisk.” 

 

May 26 – “Perfectly wretched day.” 

 

May 27 – “Morning in my room. Afternoon in living-room receiving and serving tea. Taught Ella Downs ‘Rum’. Dinner 
& evening with Miss O’Neil until playing for dancing.” 


 

May 28 – “Sunday. Millbrook. Chaperoned to Dutch Reform with Mrs Stearns. Seniors entertained school in the 
evening with harp concert by Mrs David given before the White House.” 

 

May 29 blank 

 

May 30 – “Made costumes for Margaret Walker in ‘The Sands of Heart’s Desire’. Rec’d ‘bid’ from Miss Bennett to 
remain thro’ Commencement.” 

 

May 31 – “Drove to Moore’s Mills for to-night chaperoning Katherine Houk, Eleanor Taylor, Ruth Millikens, Helen 
Balfs, Louise Davis, and Elizabeth Warner.” 

 

June 1 – “Faculty Dinner – nearly froze! 7 P.M. Beautiful drive back to the school which we reached at 8.30. Served for 
Miss Green this afternoon. Senior elections to-night – making Katherine Pres. and Eleanor Vice-pres.!!” 

 

Jun 2 blank 

 

Jun 3 – “Morning spent in decorating living-room and library yellow lilies and yellow roses. Afternoon free – in my 
room. Evening Glee Club Concert in living-room which I heard with Miss Durfee. Miss Lillian Littlehaler a guest, also 
Miss Amy Murray.” 

 

Jun 4 – “Chaperoned at church with Mrs Steans. Dinner with Miss Green. Coffee at two-forty-five. Music by Miss 
Littlehaler, cellist, & Mr Rickett. Chapel at 6.30. Mr Gilbert giving Bacca -- Lovely walk with Mrs Merrill. 

 

Jun 5 – “Field Day – presentation of cups most thrilling experiences ever had! Saw a lot of Miss Murray who charmed 
with her Gaelic Songs in the evening and burning of peat. Miss O’Neils play a great success. Henrietta danced – Mrs 
Kennedy recited ‘Butterflies’ and Mr Browning. Mr K. read Blind Man.” 

 

Jun 6 – “Arranged peonies and iris. Musicals at 11 o’clock. Bispham[?] the star soloist. Commencment at 2.30. Dr 
Slicer, speaker. After diplomas Mrs Kennedy read from Servant in the House before planting the Ivy.” 

 

Jun 7 – “Packed all the morning and left Millbrook in pouring rain at four o’clock for Moores Mills where I am spending 
the night with Friend Susan” 

 

Jun 8 – “Left Miss Susan’s at 4.06 and arrived at Peekskill at six o’clock finding Jen in New York. It has cleared 
beautifully and is very hot.” 

 

Jun 9 – “Rode down to Nerplanchi[?] this A.M with Gertrude to find Old Alice. Gertrude with us all day. Went to Miss 
Miller’s this evening.” 

 

Jun 10 – “Boiling hot day. Jen in New York and I have given day to getting Bertha’s house in order. Jenny Rumsey 
Chase a guest at Jen’s. Nice veranda call from Mr Frost.” 

 

Jun 11 – “John and Constance up for Sunday – a lovely day with them! Bertha delayed.” 

 

Jun 12 – “Finished the house before B’s arrival at 3.08. Spent night with her – everything seeming quite as if she hadn’t 
been away except for the display upon Ruth’s bed.” 

 

Jun 13 – “Rainy day and a quiet one with Bertha except for a few callers in the afternoon, so heard all about her trip.” 

 


Jun 14 – “Left at 11.03 for Burlington. Delayed an hour and twenty minutes at Garrison. Molly met us with Henry’s 
family who also greeted a guest – Miss Reler[?].” 

 

Jun 15 – “Burlington Unpacked and settled this A.M. Mrs Wales[?] called this afternoon and plans are under way for a 
tea to-morrow.” 

 

Jun 16 – “Veranda tea given for Sara & Miss Peeler[?] the event of the day. The Underwoods, May, Fanny, Helen, Hallis, 
Julia, Harriet Richardson, Mrs Wales[?], Mary Benedict and Jane Wheeler came. Saw Charlotte later.” 

 

Jun 17 – “At home until after nap, then called on Hallie, Fanny Shaw, Mrs Benedict and Mrs Wheeler. Walked with 
Molly to see sunset!” 

 

Jun 18 – “Sunday – church and communion at College Street. H.F.W.[?] at dinner. Drive to Malletts Bay with Mrs. H. 
Alice and Molly. H.F.W. for veranda supper. Ada spent evening talking Goon Camp Bldgs.” 

 

Jun 19 – “Much domestic storming in Hagar household resulting in Lizzie’s giving notice. Mrs. Wexter gave us a 
luncheon – May, Lucy and Mrs. Wales other guests. Picnic supper with Henry and his motor out to Williston.” 

 

Jun 20 – “Morning calls on H.F.W. and Mrs Pease. Started with Molly at 4.40 for The Barber Farm. Charming Chicago 
guests here – Michler and Parkers – Misses Harvig and Carleton. Tom graduates.” 

 

Jun 21 – “Williston. Showery and cold so that open fires and Mrs Wilkins companionship are attractive.” 

 

Jun 22 – “Rain and cold continues and we are still lazy. Read Percy MacKaye’s ‘Anti-Matrimony’.” 

 

Jun 23 – “Dorothy rec’d her ring this A.M. Morning and afternoon both over in the woods to escape cool winds and enjoy 
brilliant sun. Walk in fern pasture wonderful! Evening on Mrs G’s veranda and down-stairs being ‘entertained’.” 

 

Jun 24 – “Morning in woods. Afternoon on Molly’s bed until time to drive her to station. Evening on veranda alone with 
Mt Mansfield until dusk drove me in to write letters. Powells here for dinner.” 

Jun 25 – “D. made ‘Sig.[?]’ sister to-night. Mrs Folsom’s 85th. Baccalaureate Sunday UVM. Quiet Sunday at Barber 
Farm writing letters all day. Evening at Mrs Scriburns cottage enjoying her charming old prints, furniture, quilts, etc. and 
Miss Harvig’s music.” 

 

Jun 26 – “Dorothy’s engagement was announced at Sig Tea. Burlington again this A.M. Ivy exercises, tea at Grass 
Mount and at Sigma Phi. Call from Evelyn Benedict before we went to Senior Prom which was most depressing.” 

 

Jun 27 – “Very hot day. Call from Dorothy this A.M. who showed me her ring, etc. Called on May & Mrs Slocum in the 
afternoon. Bed early to-night having tried to call on H.F.W & Lucy.” 

 

Jun 28 – “Commencement Day – saw procession with Harriet R, Helen & Molly. Pleasant greeting from ‘Benny’. Bed 
all the afternoon. Reception in the evening most delightful! ‘Ever fast friends’.” 

 

Jun 29 – “Errands this A.M. Call from George & Grenville, and upon Mrs Wales. Left for Greensboro at 4.50, met J. & 
H. at East Hardwick, and found Lyon here.” 

 

Jun 30 – “Greensboro Vt. House delightfully clean! Busy day settling. Long call from Mrs Ayer this afternoon. Evening 
alone – spent partly in sentimental musings in fire-light & candle-light while D. & others met Beau & East H.” 

 


July 1 – “Hot day and to-night sees us fairly settled and in running order. Mrs Howes came and we spent part of evening 
on her veranda and at the Dewhurst.” 

 

Jul 2 – “Hottest July 2nd in 33 yrs. Spent most of day preparing for veranda supper for the Lyman House Party. The girls 
stayed over night sleeping out.” 

 

Jul 3 – “97° here today breaks all records. Dewhurst girls remained all the morning. Kenneth spent evening with Frederic 
not arriving until 10.45 owing to lateness of trains.” 

 

Jul 4 – “Too hot to move. A long visit from Helen this morning. One also from Mrs Howes in the evening thus we went 
to the Demings for fire-works.” 

 

Jul 5 – “Same blistering heat - 92° in house. Paddled to village – Herrick, Louise & F.D.C. and heard concert on way 
home. Charlie, Hattie and Mr Howes came this evening.” 

 

Jul 6 – “Day of adjustments. Supper on veranda with just C. & H.” 

 

Jul 7 – “Cool, lovely day! Gathered fir balsam for Constance’s pillow – Dorothy finding me in the woods. First music of 
the summer at Mrs Howes. Evening with the Lawrences.” 

 

Jul 8 – “Called on Eliot this morning and on Snyder sisters and Mrs Lukins in the afternoon with Mrs Howes. Wonderful 
moonlight – on water with C. & H. and the Howes, Mrs singing.” 

 

Jul 9 – “Warm again. Service out doors down at the Snyder Camp. Lovely evening on the water with C. H. and Lyon. 
Louise spends night with me.” 

 

Jul 10 – “Dr and Mrs Salter guests at the Howes. Frightful heat. Charlie took me to village this evening – water like 
opals in brilliant coloring. Thunderhead changed into a pink poppy.” 

 

Jul 11 – “Too hot to do more than exist. Dorothy and Louise watched sunset here indulging in charming cloud fantasies.” 

 

Jul 12 – “Mrs Salter, Mrs Howes, Helen & Louise here this morning. Four hour nap this afternoon. Victor Concert with 
C.H. and F.D.C.” 

 

Jul 13 – “20° cooler in living-room to-day a blessing! C & I at Mrs Howes a few minutes before tea hearing ‘The [ ry’]! 
C. left for Hartford this evening. Music at Mrs Howes, Helen playing so beautifully.” 

 

Jul 14 – “Morning with Mary Bliss & her postals. Young crowd went up Barr Hill this afternoon. Lovely evening on 
water and opposite rocky shore with Anna & Miss Bliss. Dorothy spent night with me.” 

 

Jul 15 – “Delightful music this A.M. in absence of the [ ] on Barr Hill, with Dorothy and Mrs S. & Mrs H. ‘The 
Salutation of the Dawn’ wonderful! Paddled across to library in evening with Hattie, Tom & Lyon.” 

 

Jul 16 – “Sunday – late breakfast. Service at Mrs Mac’s conducted by ‘P.M’ perfectly lovely. It was followed by quite a 
musical program in which both the Salters took part. Louise here for veranda supper.” 

 

Jul 17 – “Got breakfast & much housework on a Monday morning. Hard rain both afternoon and evening.” 

 

Jul 18 – “Morning began picking peas – then had a lovely time with Mrs Howes first in our boat-house afterward in the [ 
]. Beach supper at Allen Camp with Anna & Miss Bliss. Music at the Bungalow.” 


 

Jul 19 – “Last morning with Mrs Salter. ‘The Lake’ the loveliest composition of all I think. Made pillow for Daisy 
Hagar. Pasture walk with Louise Avery. Evening looking at Mrs Mac’s house plans.” 

 

Jul 20 – “Tom’s 22nd birthday. Salters departed in the rain. Cleared this afternoon. Helen and Louise came up to take my 
picture. Johnson Concert with A.L.S. crowd.” 

 

Jul 21 – “Mended most of morning. Louise left at four for home. D. joined me on Mrs H’s veranda and later we went to 
sit on ‘Pilleas[sic] and Milisands[sic] seat’. Rowed to Allen Camp in evening. Robinsons called here.” 

 

Jul 22 – “Heavenly day! Golf Club gone to Burlington – breakfast with Mrs. Howes on her veranda. Library in evening 
and played for dancing at Mrs. Howes.” 

 

Jul 23 – “Beautiful day with soft fleecy clouds. ‘Sing’ at the Demings cottage. Got things ready for mailing for 
Constance’s birthday.” 

 

Jul 24 – “Not much doing to-day. Spent evening with the two Julias.” 

 

Jul 25 – “Mrs Howes called this morning to Cleveland. Called this afternoon with H. D. on the Robinsons – had tea. 
Spent the evening with Hattie at the Ayer’s dance. ‘Peet’ came for a week.” 

 

Jul 26 – “Constance’s birthday. Village this morning with Julia Deming. Village this afternoon with F. D. C. This 
evening at the Howes playing for Ralph.” 

 

Jul 27 – “Accompanied Ralph this A.M. Walked to the Landons this P.M. stopping at A.S.L’s[?] to plan for Allen supper. 
Rowed to their camp in evening. [B y] dance – much orchestra.” 

 

Jul 28 – “Called on Julia Bitting this A.M. Rained rest of day. ‘500’ in the evening.” 

 

Jul 29 – “Much of this day given to entertaining the Allen Camp at Anna’s this evening./ Great success!!” 

 

Jul 30 – “Sing at the Mass conducted by Mr Lord – Three sources of permanent happiness. ‘In tune with the Infinite’ – 
loving one’s neighbor, and loving nature. Late call from Dorothy on the veranda.” 

 

Jul 31 – “Warm, muggy day. Charlie came this evening – but without Ilsa.” 

 

August 1 – “Very humid. Called on Mrs Gillespie and Katherine this afternoon. Went to village this evening with 
Herrick and Mr Howe.” 

 

Aug 2 – “Lovely weather. Mr H. & Mr D. Cleveland this morning. Practiced with C. two hours this afternoon – new 
music! Evening alone but for a short hammock call from Julia D.” 

 

Aug 3 – “First full meal of 2nd planting of peas. Tried to get to Hardwick! Practice two hours. Walked over to Johnson 
recital and back with Charlie, Hattie and Mac Farland cat.” 

 

Aug 4 – “Played for Ralph an hour this A.M. Helen Mac here for dinner. Long nap this afternoon. Evening with Julia 
Demming talking girls schools in Hali’s ‘bower’.” 

 

Aug 5 – “Worked busily all day getting ready for Ames & Ilsa who came this evening. Julia with me on our veranda early 
in evening bringing sweet peas.” 


 

Aug 6 – “Miss Thornton’s birthday. C. preached in village. Sing at the Demming’s. small attendance on account of rain. 
Tea about the fire – Mrs Dewhurst came in later.” 

 

Aug 7 – “Morning on veranda with various callers. Social Service Symposium at Snyder Camp in afternoon. A part of 
the evening with Julia on her back veranda – the rest on our’s in moonlight.” 

 

Aug 8 – “Morning in the woods with Ames. Finished Constance’s afghan this afternoon. Frederic and Ilsa gave hay-ride. 
C. drove. Moonlight was heavenly – and everybody voted it ‘the nicest hay-ride’.” 

 

Aug 9 – “Morning with Ames and Ilsa in Hathaway pasture. Afternoon went over to woods on other side of lake with 
Mrs D., Beau, And Dorothy for picnic. Most wonderful moonlight night.” 

 

Aug 10 – “Morning with Ames fixing my tea arrangements. Drove in afternoon around lake. Johnson recital with him 
finishing with moon-light walk.” 

 

Aug 11 – “Rain – morning before fire, cards – knitting etc. Made calls with Ames later in day. Mrs Dewhurst played 
‘500’ with us in evening. Golf Club went to Barre Brig’s[?] machine had accident.” 

 

Aug 12 - “Mrs Howes birthday. Drove to East H. with Ames & Ilsa to see them off this morning for Littleton. Took 
hood to Florence Waterinan[?] in the afternoon and saw A.L.F’s Peter Pan addition. Evening at the Demmings.” 

 

Aug 13 – “Beau & Dorothy spending Sunday in B. Carried cucumber thro’ camp. Read Rising Generations articles with 
Julia D. Sing at Mrs Ayer’s, conducted by Franklyn. Played with C. this evening.” 

 

Aug 14 – “Warmer again. Edith has come. House-warming at The Lukin’s[?].” 

 

Aug 15 – “Spent most of day embroidering shirt waist. Rainy evening spent in music at Mrs Howes.” 

 

Aug 16 – “Cut waist for Hattie. Mrs Johnson & Mrs Dewhurst [ ] all the evening while Mr J. and C. practiced for 
concert.” 

 

Aug 17 – “Beautiful drive around Elligo to Hardwick this A.M. Afternoon spent in ‘bower’ sewing for Edith. Concert in 
the evening for most people. Julia and astronomy my pleasure.” 

 

Aug 18 – “Day spent largely in finishing shirt waist for H. who left this evening with C. for a week at Woodstock. 
Aquatic sport prize won by Lyon!” 

 

Aug 19 – “Rainy morning. Afternoon spent at Mrs Dewhurst’s listening to an acc’t of her work. Read ‘A Gentle 
Heritage’ to Edith this evening.” 

 

Aug 20 – “Sunday. Read ‘Lesson’ with Edith in ‘the bower’ this morning. Tom led the sing at Mrs Ayer’s.” 

 

Aug 21 – “Busy house-work day. Mrs. Luken’s[?] in the evening to hear Franklyn on ‘English Ballads’.” 

 

Aug 22 – “Team in [ ] [ ] to-day and won. Charlie returned from Woodstock this evening with them. ‘An unmarried 
ladies party’ this evening teaching Edith and Mrs D. ‘500’.” 

 

Aug 23 – “Mrs Dixon at Barton Fair all day so there has been much house work. Walked with C. Prof. and Mrs Howes 
in Hathaway woods. Wonderful sunset which we saw from canoe in the bay. ‘500’ later.” 


 

Aug 24 – “Bunch berry walk with Edith this morning. Mrs Howes composed ‘cello Opus No 1’ which C. tried this 
afternoon. Johnson concert with C., Edith and Mrs Dewhurst.” 

 

Aug 25 – “Edith’s last day. Finished ‘The Bluebird’ with her – and had another ‘500’ séance.” 

 

Aug 26 – “Got up at five to get Edith off this morning. Bed all the afternoon. Mrs Howes entertained this evening ‘for 
the birthdays’ and her mother’s wedding anniversary. Hattie returned at 9.” 

 

Aug 27 – “Charlie led sing at Mrs Howes. Mrs Dewhurst here for supper. Howes and Carters went later to the Farm to 
give them some music. Tom brought ‘Ellen’ over this afternoon.” 

 

Aug 28 – “Rainy day. Played with C. awhile after supper. Kissed my daughter good-night this last night of my year, 
called at the Demings, and hours to play ‘500’. Mrs Dewhurst here.” 

 

Aug 29 – “Found gladioli on veranda from Julia. Dorothy went gardening with me. Supper at the Dewhursts – music at 
the Howes – short because of Miller corn roast – and ‘500’ here. Mantel so beautiful with viburnae.” 

 

Aug 30 – “Old Folk’s Concert at the village this evening perfectly killing – ‘A memory’ worth the price!” 

 

Aug 31 – “Mrs Dixon’s last day – nothing of interest happened.” 

 

September 1 – “Our own Bridget to-day. Charlie and Hattie went to Burlington for over Sunday. At Mrs D’s a while in 
the evening while she made wreath.” 

 

Sep 2 – “Got Tom off on early train – then went to see Mrs Dewhurst off. In bed all the afternoon until time for short call 
on Blanche Brigham. Julia, Mary, and Mr and Mrs Howes on the veranda watching moon-light.” 

 

Sep 3 – “Sing at the Demings. Lovely moonlight night spent with Julia walking and on our veranda.” 

 

Sep 4 – “H. & C. returned from Burlington about noon. Drove to Hardwick with C. eating our supper en route and 
returning by moon-light.” 

 

Sep 5 – “Weather still cold. Came down with Esther to Mary Ward’s for a five days visit – finding her in bed.” 

 

Sep 6 blank 

 

Sep 7 – “Down town all this morning. Slept all the afternoon. Music and ‘500’ with the girls this evening. Reading ‘The 
Bluebird’ aloud.” 

 

Sep 8 – “Lovely walk with Esther out Summit St to Cannon’s[?] etc. Molly’s this afternoon and for supper. Mrs Ward 
very weak and ill.” 

 

Sep 9 – “Rain. ‘500’ with the girls after breakfast. Call from Molly who brought us grapes. Esther and I came back to 
Camp at 4.30.” 

 

Sep 10 – “Warm & bright again. Worked quite a bit towards closing the house. ‘Sing’ at Julia’s. Lyon and Herrick took 
us canoeing. Eliots left.” 

 

Sep 11– “House nearly closed to-night. Eleven cases of typhoid reported in the village!” 


 

Sep 12 – “Family off this morning. Helen D’s birthday – took dinner with her & Eleanor. Lovely day with Julia. Left at 
5.11 for Mary Ward’s again – this lovely quiet house!” 

 

Sep 13 – “Morning with Mary. Afternoon shopping and having hair washed. Beau and Dorothy here this evening. Terribly 
cold weather!” 

 

Sep 14 – “Took present down to Auntie Mia[?] . Called at the Voteys[?] with Anna. A simply perfect day!” 

 

Sep 15 – “Dorothy with me until I left by The Flyer. So late that lost connections and conductor stopped the train here for 
me. J. & C. here. (Peekskill)” 

 

Sep 16 – “Peekskill. errands this morning. Tennis tea this afternoon. Bridge this evening – Helen, Stabbs [?] and the 
Simpsons.” 

 

Sep 17 – “Sunday – Peekskill. Quiet morning. Fine duck dinner with Simpsons here. Long walk with Bertha. Evening 
singing oratorios.” 

 

Sep 18 – “Spent morning helping Constance with grapes after going first to Miss Miller’s and deciding clothes.” 

 

Sep 19 – “Bertha in New York all day. Hazen & Gertrude here for dinner – alone rest of day on acc’t of jellying going on 
at Gertrudes.” 

 

Sep 20 – “John and Constance at Gertrude’s all day. Slept all the afternoon. Mr. Sut[?] here this evening for Hurts[?]” 

 

Sep 21 – Mr. Suet’s[?] engagement announced today. Julia back to B. M. today. Spent morning stitching baby-blankets 
for Constance. Afternoon at Reading Club where Mrs. Post from Conia[?] (Harvey’s sister) talk interestingly on Turkish 
conditions.” 

 

Sep 22 – “Worked on dress for the baby.” 

 

Sep 23 – “Lovely talk with Constance! Library, and tennis tea in the afternoon. ‘Auctions’ this evening.” 

 

Sep 24 – “Sunday – went to cemetery with Hazen & Gertrude and drove twenty miles afternoon. John & Constance went 
back to New York at six – a lovely evening without them.” 

 

Sep 25 – “Very oppressive day – heat and humidity. Miss Miller here – much clothes. Dorothy leaving for Chicago I 
suppose.” 

 

Sep 26 – “Sharp thundershower early this morning kept us from New York. Clearing and cooler to-night – thank fortune!” 

 

Sep 27 – “Morning shopping in New York. Afternoon with John and Constance at their apartment. Beautiful Victrola 
records they have!” 

 

Sep 28 – “Sewing – sewing – sewing” 

 

Sep 29 – “Sewing – sewing – and more sewing.” 

 

Sep 30 – “Sewed all day until four when I went down for tea at the tennis courts and to the Library.” 

 


October 1 – “Sunday. Mr Edwin Sanborn – one of Bertha’s ‘Arabica bachellors’ here for dinner. Helen Husted brought 
her foreign photos late in the afternoon.” 

 

Oct 2 – “Another day with Miss Miller here. Got my white dress together. Evening went to The Get Together Club at Mrs 
Bakers.” 

 

Oct 3 – “Busy day doing last things with a lovely evening at the Fronts[?] enjoying Hal’s ‘Victrola’.” 

 

Oct 4 – “Breakfast at ‘The Raleigh’ and after a day’s shopping Bertha and I left New York at four o’clock – she getting 
off at New Haven.” 

 

Oct 5 – “Hartford Downtown with fur coat and hat-hunting twice to-day.” 

 

Oct 6 – “Dressed doll for the Fair. Made over furs. Finished brown house dress. Called on Mrs Hayden.” 

 

Oct 7 blank 

 

Oct 8 – “Sunday in Hartford and at home all day. Much ‘Iron Woman’ about.” 

 

Oct 9 – “Finished errands & articles for the Fair and fixing my violet gown.” 

 

Oct 10 – “Packed this A.M. for Buffalo. Went to the church & saw articles for the Fair before taking train with Charlie for 
C.F. Supper at Ruby’s with birthday cake. Lovely telescope experience – ride in with Ames.” 

 

Oct 11 – “Ida’s birthday and I’m in Buffalo. Buffalo at last! Drove around town all the morning. Chesters[?] here for the 
night. Mrs Foster and Mrs Martin called this afternoon. 

 

Oct 12 – “Visited ‘Plum Daffy’ this afternoon. Thekla & Jessie called this evening – much, much gossip and a lovely 
time! ‘Her flames never go out’” 

 

Oct 13 – “Motored all the morning with Will, Madame C. and her nurse. Slept all the afternoon and had a quiet evening – 
only Mr Good calling.” 

 

Oct 14 – “Down town all the morning – calling on Jessie a bit. Family went to the theatre and I slept – wrote Dorothy & 
Julia and called upon Miss Falkner and Miss Hoag.” 

 

Oct 15 “First Sunday in Buffalo. Service very lovely! Ed Tanner sang to Schubert’s ‘Adieu’ ‘O Lamb of God.’ Thekla 
walked hours with us as formerly. Jessie called in the afternoon. Supper at Thekla’s.” 

 

Oct 16 – “Heavenly day. Motored down the river – beautiful foliage. Music all the evening with Margaret.” 

 

Oct 17 – “Rain all day. Elizabeth Gusterie[?] called. Musical evening with Margaret again.” 

 

Oct 18 – “Lovely visit with Mams[?] this morning. Luncheon at Mrs Martins with Ida and Munder. Drive with the family 
thro’ Amherst Estates & Humboldt Park. Church in evening with Fosters. American 

[B ]” 

 

Oct 19 – “Called on Mrs Clifton this A.M. Tea at Plum Daffy – Mrs Martin taking out her sister, Mrs. Dold, Mrs Foster 
and Mrs Armstrong.” 

 


Oct 20 – “Plum Daffy this morning to clean up after yesterday’s spree. Made and received calls this afternoon. A lovely 
evening – dinner – at Mame’s and Bertha’s.” 

 

Oct 21 – “Anne Sim’s[?] 13th birthday. Anna came at tea – motored rest of morning. Bad day for Madame C. Afternoon 
most of it with Jessie. Played for Margaret this evening.” 

 

Oct 22 – “Service this morning – Anna, Ida, and I. Rained rest of day outside and in.” 

 

Oct 23 – “House morning with a few errands during which saw Constance C. Drove to Clarence Center in the afternoon – 
frightful wind.” 

 

Oct 24 – “Most interesting two hours at Franklin School this morning – and a lovely visit with Mams knitting on her 
jacket. Drove to South Park in the afternoon. Cards this evening.” 

 

Oct 25 – “Packed to go to Mrs Foster’s. Rest of morning with Thekla. Accompanied Margaret at Memorial Chapel this 
afternoon. Dinner with Munder and church - Ida with us. Haydn.” 

 

Oct 26 – “Down town this morning. Calls on Mrs Frink and Mrs Colson this afternoon.” 

 

Oct 27 – “Errands this A.M. after hearing the concert at the Lafayette School where we met Mrs Leming[?]. Afternoon at 
home. Evening with Anna at Miss Falkner’s – a glimpse later of Masquerade at the Seminary.” 

 

Oct 28 – “Morning at ‘29’. Thekla gave us a tea and read ‘The Happy Prince’ Miss Nrissor[?] accompanying – perfectly 
heavenly performance! Mary gave a Kgri[?] dinner at 6.30. Roger P. John R. Louise & Catherine.” 

 

Oct 29 – “James 16th birthday. Early service. Westminster a bit also and then up to Thekla’s for music. Afternoon with 
Jessie, and early to bed to-night.” 

 

Oct 30 – “At Ida’s nearly all day. Accompanied Margaret during lesson.” 

 

Oct 31 – “Dark and rainy day. Luncheon with Mrs White at Mrs Roger’s. Thekla here for dinner and Mr and Mrs Tanner 
in the evening.” 

 

November 1 – “Luncheon at Mame’s. Down town afterwards, then out to Idas. Too tired for church this evening – wrote 
letters, then to bed when I found the ground white with snow.” 

 

Nov 2 – “Mrs Martin came at eleven & took us to her house where Mrs F. joined us for luncheon. Later called on Fanny 
Wilkes, Mrs Neill, and Mrs Ogden whom we didn’t find. Home evening.” 

 

Nov 3 – “Mrs Rogers took us out to the Nichols School this afternoon. Heard Aldius[?] violin lesson then saw the school. 
Tea later at Mame’s where I found Mrs Eppendorf and the Kents.” 

 

Nov 4 – “Down town this morning. Lafayette & Nichols game this afternoon 6 to 0. Met Joe and his wife – also the 
Albrights.” 

 

Nov 5 – “Early service. Came home and wrote letters. Miss Crawford here for dinner. Evening at Thekla’s hearing 
‘Bergliot.” 

 

Nov 6 – “Went over to Ida’s and Mrs F. telephoned for me to bring her home for luncheon. 

Called on Katherine Ogden late in the afternoon and bade her good-by for her Cal. winter.” 


 

Nov 7 – “Down town – bought cross-stitching materials. Went home with Jessie to luncheon and stayed until Constance 
Churchyard telephoned she would come to call on me.” 

 

Nov 8 – “Morning at house. Alison Mann’s coming out reception at four with Ida. Church in the evening. Mrs Martin was 
here for luncheon.” 

 

Nov 9 – “Home all day finishing white dress. Dinner at Thekla’s. Mrs. [M ] sang in the evening.” 

 

Nov 10 – “At Mrs Armstrong’s this morning. Luncheon at Ida’s – with Plum Daffy immediately following. Dinner at the 
Parkers with Martins and Fosters.” 

 

Nov 11 – “Very warm – 76° . Dorothy spent day with us. Motor ride along Ellicott Creek and Niagara River. Many calls 
in the afternoon.” 

 

Nov 12 – “Great day of wind and rain. Used up from yesterday’s ride and called off ‘Buff’s’ dinner. Ida and Anna spent 
the morning with us. Worked on Angelico paper.” 

 

Nov 13 – “Mrs White’s 80th birthday. Busy with her tea all day. Very cold- mercury having dropped more than 50 degrees 
in twenty-four hours.” 

 

Nov 14 “Thekla’s birthday. Came here to Mrs Neill’s for a few days.” 

 

Nov 15 – “Went to 20th Cent. Club at 11. Heard Mrs Lucia Ames Mead speak on the Peace Movement. Mrs Will invited 
Mrs Mynter and Miss Williams to lunch with us. Thekla spent evening.” 

 

Nov 16 – “Talked with Mrs Neill all of the morning. Mrs Knowlton and Mrs Lemming unable to come so returned to 29 
Colonial Circle again in the afternoon.” 

 

Nov 17 – “Finished Fra Angelico this A.M. ‘Assisted’ Mrs Martin at her chrysanthemum reception this afternoon. – a 
beautiful occasion in every way.” 

 

Nov 18 – “Day of squalls. Stayed at home all of the morning. Made calls upon Mrs Steven and her friend Miss O’Connell, 
Mrs. Jos Allen and Mrs Heath.” 

 

Nov 19 – “Early service at C.S. Eleven o’clock at St. Paul’s. Dinner at Mrs Tanner’s. Five o’clock musical service at 
First Church. Evening at home and early to bed.” 

 

Nov 20 – “Constance C. spent morning with me. Mrs Fitch called. Spent two hours with Mame this afternoon then got 
Mrs White from Sewing Circle home, thus Mrs. F. from Dante Class. Snow was wonderful thro’ the Parks.” 

 

Nov 21 – “Shopping at Peter Paul’s. Met Mrs Neill and visited Seminary. Luncheon at Ida’s – Mr and Mrs Caleb there. 
Made four calls later and found no one at home.” 

 

Nov 22 – “Beautiful day. Luncheon at Mrs Martins. On the way home Mrs F. told me of Mrs Martin’s offer to me! 
Service this evening very lovely. Mr F. at Jury. Ida, Mrs F. and I went alone.” 

 

Nov 23 – “Home this A.M. Took the old ladies out to Ingleride. Lovely calls from Miss Mann and Mrs Will Allen.” 

 


Nov 24 – “Heard Violet play at Thekla’s. Luncheon at Westminster Linen Sale with Mrs Neil. ‘Heart to heart’ with Mrs 
Martin, then a short call on Mrs Armstrong.” 

 

Nov 25 – “Frightful blizzard. Chromatic Club where Thekla did ‘Bergliot’. Tea afterward with Mrs Knowlton and Mrs 
Leming. Dinner at Thekla’s.” 

 

Nov 26 – “Early service. Call on Constance who gave me breakfast. Home the rest of the day. Mrs Foster read charming 
Clovelly[?] story in the evening ‘The Revenge’ by Mary Shipman Andrews.” 

 

Nov 27 – “Packing and last things before going east. Mrs Martin called right after luncheon. Pleasant call upon the 
Parkers in the evening – nice talk with Mr Breed upon Burlington.” 

 

Nov 28 – “Terrible rain – but we did 20 streets[?] all the same. My nicest was calling on Clara Allen. Violets and pleasant 
telephone messages from Mrs Martin. Left at 9.45 P.M.” 

 

Nov 29 – “Shampoo & errands after breakfast at ‘The Massasoit’ - then letters – before going to Miss Marys. Walk this 
afternoon with Ilsa seeing Grace & Ilsa.” 

 

Nov 30 – “Thanksgiving Day Chicopee Falls. Miss Mary taken suddenly ill this noon broke up the day effectually for 
me. Charlie is spending the night with me though Miss Mary’s mind is now clear.” 

 

December 1 – “Much nursing and consultation to-day. Dr Warren found nothing wrong with Miss Mary’s heart.” 

 

Dec 2 – “Miss Mary doesn’t seem to improve. Ames came out and took us in to Springfield for an hour’s ‘rest’, and 
shopping this afternoon.” 

 

Dec 3 – “Sunday. Miss Mary very weak to-day. Ames took us to Forest Park this afternoon and we have had a lovely 
evening together. Miss Mary better to-night.” 

 

Dec 4 – “Installed nurse here this morning and left for Hartford at 5.22 having tea first with Ames & Ruby. Found 
wonderful letter from Mrs Martin!” 

 

Dec 5 – “Definite decision made to go to Mrs Martin’s January 1st. At home all day unpacking and planning for Xmas. 
Mrs Willard Brown and Sarah Emily called.” 

 

Dec 6 – “Down town all the morning Xmas shopping – home the rest of day working busily.” 

 

Dec 7 – “At home all day working like a beaver – nice call from Mrs Thayer late this afternoon.” 

 

Dec 8 – “Morning Circle met with our neighbor, Mrs Kaufmann. We put up lace curtains in the parlor which add a 
‘spiffy’ touch. Mrs Burton & her sister called.” 

 

Dec 9 – “Wretched day – but accomplished letter-writing and sewing.” 

 

Dec 10 – “In bed nearly all day. Charming evening with Miss Vanderbeck here – also Mrs Howard and Miss Cons[?].” 

 

Dec 11 – “Final word from Mrs Martin. Very sad news of Mrs Prince’s condition. Missionary meeting – 45 in 
attendance this afternoon. Errands after it. Did up Xmas gifts this evening.” 

 


Dec 12 – This day should be transposed with the preceding. At home all day scrubbing corset – finishing cross-stitching 
etc. Constance’s baby girl born to-day, never breathed.” 

 

Dec 13 – “Much sewing and writing.” 

 

Dec 14 – “Down town shopping. Lyon home for the night. Went to prayer meeting.” 

 

Dec 15 – “Finished Hattie’s lovely wisteria hangings! Young Woman’s Circle here this afternoon (13) and Miss Esther 
and Miss Abby here for supper.” 

 

Dec 16 – “Rain all day. Massage this A.M. from Miss Calion[?] - in bed all the afternoon.” 

 

Dec 17 – “Sunday. At home all day. Read ‘The Healer’. Trios this afternoon and Miss Vanderbeck and Miss Wheeler 
were here for supper.” 

 

Dec 18 – “Massage this morning. Called with Hattie upon Miss Lvonier[?] Mrs Wells and Mrs Haydon.” 

 

Dec 19 – “Much Xmas all day and finishing the down-stairs curtains.” 

 

Dec 20 – “Mrs Prince making marvelous recovery. Massage this morning. Herrick and Lyon home for the vacation.” 

 

Dec 21 – “Went down town this morning and had heart examined by Dr Abrams. O. K. Spent rest of day doing up 
packages. Had a lovely letter from Dorothy Martin.” 

 

Dec 22 – “Gasolined dresses this A. M. and mended. Rain most of the day but when it let up a bit went down town.” 

 

Dec 23 – “Massage. Mrs Prince died at 7.45. Got off rest of presence. Ames came at four and stayed for supper.” 

 

Dec 24 – “Xmas Sunday. Hartford. Church followed by Manger Service in the chapel. Had our presents this evening, 
Tom acting as Santa Claus.” 

 

Dec 25 – “Hattie and Charlie left for Lex. at 2.30. Wrote eleven Xmas acknowledgements! Rec’d boxes from Fosters and 
Martins.” 

 

Dec 26 – “Housework all the morning. Shopping for suit in the afternoon. Mr and Mrs Benj. Swift called. Mrs Prince 
buried today.” 

 

Dec 27 – “Fitting nine o’clock Sage Allen’s. Herrick left for Yonkers 9.40 to visit Miss Francis. C & H. returned from 
Lex. at 3. – reporting not very good news of Mrs Thornton.” 

 

Dec 28 – “Lyon went to Lex. for rest of vacation this morning. Shopped all the morning for waist and hat. Fitting this 
afternoon. Roger came for over Sunday.” 

 

Dec 29 – “Influenza – worse luck! In house all day. Made flannel waist.” 

 

Dec 30 – “Saw Venus at 5 A.M. Wonderful star! Sewed all the morning. A long call from Miss Vanderbeck this 
afternoon, who brought us duets. Frederick entertaining this evening. Ilsa here.” 

 

Dec 31 – “Sunday – Hartford. Packed all day. Left at 8.05 for Buffalo – Ames and Ruby waiting with me in 
Springfield.” 


 

 

 

1912 

 

January 1 – “Buffalo at two this morning! Mrs Martin and Dorothy met me and we went right to the Fosters, thus ‘Home’. 
Rested all afternoon. Dined at the LaFayette – Martins – Fosters- Barcalos & Reidpaths.” 

 

Jan 2 – “Breakfast in bed. Downtown. Unpacked & settled. ‘Munder’ here for tea with other callers.” 

 

Jan 3 – “Not up per order I.R.M. until after luncheon. Ida spend afternoon with us and I poured tea. First evening of duets 
with Dorothy.” 

 

Jan 4 – “These are wonderful days of rest and friendship! Nice ride thro’ the Park in the snowstorm to see the scenery 
with I.R.M. and Thekla. Mr Barow[?] called which gave me evening with Dorothy.” 

 

Jan 5 – “Up at ten & down town with I.R.M. and Mrs Bailey. Luncheon alone with Darwin. John overcome by coal gas 
just before dinner. A wonderful evening before the fire with [Eur ous]. Very cold.” 

 

Jan 6 – “Explosion of Northrup garage - accident to firemen whom I.R.M. cared for in office. Chromatic Club this 
afternoon with Dorothy.” 

 

Jan 7 – “Sunday! Lovely morning with Darwin. James, Mary, Esther here for supper. Mrs Reidpath and Auntie 
Margaret started for Cal. Read Hymn 171.” 

 

Jan 8 – “Shopped this morning for the luncheon given for Mrs. Balliet[?]. Home rest of day.” 

 

Jan 9 –“Morning at home. Luncheon at Mames. New York Phil concert this evening with Schvinus[?] as soloist. Malted 
milk luncheon before the fire!” 

 

Jan 10 – “Morning at home reading. Early luncheon before taking I.R.M. to train for East Aurora. Brought Mame out. 
Dorothy sang for her father tonight.” 

 

Jan 11- “Morning alone. Read ‘The Playboy of the Western World’. Called on Munder and Ida before hearing Beatrice 
Forbes Robertson lecture on ‘The Drama as a Social Force’” 

 

Jan 12 “Gave I.R.M. resume´ of lecture this morning. Had Munder alone for luncheon before the fire and a long visit 
later. Evening alone with the children.” 

 

Jan 13 – “Errands down town. Began I.R.M’s jacket. Nice call from Margaret C. before the fire until 6. Miss Heald here 
for dinner. Young people in for the evening. Florence Ralph played.” 

 

Jan 14 – “Communion Service at C.S. Church. Miss Crawford here to dinner. Took D. down to First Church recital and 
there was none on acc’t of the cold. Call at Thekla’s.” 

 

Jan 15 – “Home morning. Read article on Dickens. Mrs Barton & Mrs Morey for luncheon. Called on Mrs Clifton, 
Mame and Ida this afternoon. Mrs Simpson here for dinner.” 

 

Jan 16 – “Parkside Literary Club this A.M. Dr Bush speaking on Modern Research. Lecture this afternoon at School of 
Allied Arts by Miss Parshall on Norwegian tapestry. Miss P. spent the night here.” 


 

Jan 17 – “Shampoo this A.M. after taking Miss Parshall home. At home this P.M. from choice, the others seeing Tillic in 
Nightenari[??]” 

 

Jan 18 – “Read ‘The Playboy of the Western World’ to I.R.M. Called on Bertha Keyes and Mrs Neill this afternoon.” 

 

Jan 19 – “Read all the morning. Nice visit with Katherine while Darwin was at dancing school. Thekla here for dinner. 
Wonderful tuck-in from I.R.M. offering me singing lessons etc.” 

 

Jan 20 – “Started Darwin on music. Walk and call upon Mrs. Simpson with I.R.M. Beautiful Russian program at the 
Chromatic Club. Read Lesson with I.R.M. Guests in the evening, the Severances.” 

 

Jan 21 - “Lovely service on ‘Life’. No guests at dinner but Jessie called in the afternoon.” 

 

Jan 22 – “Read Literary Digest. Practiced accompaniments for Mrs Edmons to sing who came in later from Dante Class 
with Mrs Foster.” 

 

Jan 23 – “Luncheon at Munder’s to-day. Accompanied Mrs Edmonsvn[?] and Mrs Crandall read ‘The Selfish Giant.’ 
Walked across LaFayette to Main to take car home.” 

 

Jan 24 – “Down town all the morning. Ida for luncheon and rest of day.” 

 

Jan 25 – “Read ‘The Sand of Heart’s Desire’. A serious talk after luncheon – later called on Clara Allen and Miss [Ma ]. 
Much discipline at dinner and more ‘talk’ at bed-time. Very cold.” 

 

Jan 26 – “Read and made bag for Darwin this A.M. Took him dancing-school, then went with I.R.M. to Larkin’s office – 
later to Miss Crawford’s where I left her for dinner and ‘Little Women.’” 

 

Jan 27 –“ Heard Thekla read ‘The Lady of Shalott’ at Mrs. Stockton’s this afternoon – also ‘The Selfish Giant’ and 
‘Papillons’[?]. Went with Fosters to select Mary’s piano. Dinner there with Dorothy.” 

 

Jan 28 – “Sunday. Morning with Ida. Madame C. much worn. Mrs Monrey[?] & B. for dinner. Saw pictures of this house 
in the evening.” 

 

Jan 29 – “Rain all day. Morning with I.R.M. Long afternoon with Ida. Wally came at five.” 

 

Jan 30 – “Madame C. rallying wonderfully. My usual day ending suddenly at dinner with an attack of indigestion which 
kept me at home from Boston Symphony concert.” 

 

Jan 31 – “Distressed to hear today of Beau’s illness. Mrs Martin away nearly all day. Called on Mrs Barton. Wrote 
letters all this evening after looking over eight books of drama IRM bought.” 

 

February 1 – “Beautiful sunny day. Read ‘Mrs Palnns’[?] & ‘Mary Magdaline’. Called on Ida & Wally and did errands. 
James & Mary here for supper which we got ourselves. Mr. M. read to us.” 

 

Feb 2 – “Madame C. died this afternoon. Dorothy went with me to get Darwin to the dancing school and then to hear [ ] 
and a Victrola.” 

 

Feb 3 – “Heard ‘The Blue Bird’ with IRM. Mrs Barcalo and fifteen children. Stopped after it Ida’s and saw Betty and 
James. Mr Martin at ‘B.B’ this evening. I.R.M. a lovely C.S. talk on my bed.” 


 

Feb 4 – “Sunday & stayed at home and wrote Anna and Wally. Went Madame C.’s funeral this afternoon and heard 
Centenary Festival program at First Church. Quiet evening before the fire, Mr. M. reading.” 

 

Feb 5 – “Wonderful morning. The lesson on ‘Spirit’ first, then talking until we finally got to Tours and Switzerland, - ‘a 
Mother, little girl, and a friend.’ Down town in the afternoon and out at Ida’s. Fosters here at dinner. 

 

Feb 6 – “Read ‘The Riders of the Sea’ this morning. An interesting call from Mrs Bull this afternoon with reference to 
the school. Walk with Dorothy. Baileys here this evening.” 

 

Feb 7 – “Down town this morning. Alone this afternoon and evening. Pitiful time after church with I.R.M.” 

 

Feb 8 – “Read ‘The Workhouse Ward.’ Heard Prof Baker lecture on ‘The Irish Players’ this afternoon. George Hamlin 
recital this evening.” 

 

Feb 9 – “Afternoon at Munder’s. Dinner at Ida’s. Coldest day in 24 years. Mrs. Thornton ill with pneumonia.” 

 

Feb 10 “Morning reading. Thekla’s musicale this afternoon at which Mrs Adams made me happy by remarking about 
I.R.M’s condition.” 

 

Feb 11 – “Church - sat with Ida and Miss Crawford. Supper at the Baileys. Fosters start south.” 

 

Feb 12 – “Spent part of morning with Mrs Severance. Ida here rest of day. Read ‘Mary Magdaline.” 

 

Feb 13 – “Day of the Birdsall golden wedding reception. Knitted fast on IRM’s jacket for a valentine. The Tates came on 
Empire for a few days. Struggle begun with Darwin at table.” 

 

Feb 14 – “Down town with Mrs Tate and Mrs Birdsall. Valentine of orchids and white sweet peas from I.R.M. with Bible 
[ ]” 

 

Feb 15 – “Alone this morning and wrote letters. I.R.M. spent afternoon in my room. Dold wedding and reception this 
evening.” 

 

Feb 16 – “Down to the station to see the Tates off. Home and spent most of morning in talking over problems. Called on 
Mrs. Will Allen while Darwin was at dancing-school.” 

 

Feb 17 – “Home all the morning. College Play at Mrs. Albright’s this afternoon. Valentine, from H.F.M. via Hartford.” 

 

Feb 18 – “Sunday – walk with I.R.M. after church. Duets with Dorothy after dinner. Supper at Theklas. Holcombs are 
going away!” 

 

Feb 19 – “I.R.M. in bed this morning. Luncheon together in sitting-room. Mrs. Haret’s[?] funeral this afternoon at three – 
call on Constance. Lecture by Prof Holmes on Montessori method.” 

 

Feb 20 – “Down town this morning. Lovely luncheon here! Mary Foster 14 yrs old to-day. Too tired to hear Baden Powell 
to-night.” 

 

Feb 21 – “Very cold again. Storms – wind - no [ ] so much reading aloud before lovely fire.” 

 

Feb 22 – “Walking impossible. Thekla couldn’t get out for D’s lesson.” 


 

Feb 23 – “Isabel Kahle here with Mary for the night. Read aloud ‘The Courage of the Commonplace’. Took Frances 
Conary [?] with me while Darwin danced. Col. Eliot and daughter here for dinner.” 

 

Feb 24 – “Finished ‘The Doll’s House.’ Saw exhibition of Mr Barone’s[?] pictures & called on Mrs Holcomb with IRM.” 

 

Feb 25 – “Church – walked home with Thekla. Vespers with I.R.M. at little church across the way. Began Pickwick 
Papers this evening.” 

 

Feb 26 – “Began siege at Dr. Fay’s” 

 

Feb 27 – “Literary Club this morning. May Staples had paper on Out Door Prisons[?]. Mrs Mowsrey on Boy Scouts.” 

 

Feb 28 – “Luncheon with Ida - calling first with her on Munder. Miss Stone’s[?] lecture on Crete this afternoon.” 

 

Feb 29 – “Read this morning. Called with I.R.M. upon Mrs Wilkes and upon Mrs Foster this afternoon. Read this 
evening.” 

 

March 1 – “Finished The Breath of the Gods – Dancing-school and dentist this afternoon. Dorothy entertain this evening. 
Saw Woodberry pictures at Gallery this morning. Noon at St. Pauls” 

 

Mar 2 – “IRM in bed all day. Did errands for her before going to the Chromatic Club with Thekla. ‘The Blessed 
Damogel’ perfectly lovely!” 

 

Mar 3 – “At home to-day. The Barton’s here for dinner. Mr Barons here for supper after which he sang delightfully.” 

 

Mar 4 – “At home all day. Read ‘An Habitation Enforced’ and one of the Pelleas and Ettarre stories. Munder came in 
after Dante[?] Class for tea and Mrs Mowrey was here for ham dinner.” 

 

Mar 5- “Beautiful sunny day. Morning down town looking up steamer. Violently ill to-night with indigestion.” 

 

Mar 6 – “In bed all day. Dr Rochester out this afternoon was a comfort!” 

 

Mar 7 - “Down for dinner to-night. Dorothy played delightfully to us.” 

 

Mar 8 – “Up all day – but feeling pretty rocky.” 

 

Mar 9 – “Mrs. Adam, Thekla, & ‘Fanny’ here for the afternoon. Mame and Bertha also came out for ‘tea’.” 

 

Mar 10 – “At home all day. Mr and Mrs Will here for dinner and the rest of the day until eleven o’clock.” 

 

Mar 11 – “Dr R’s office this morning and Dr Fay’s this afternoon. Lovely evening with I.R.M. before fire reading Pelias 
and Etarre – then in my room by candle-light! We sail May 28th!” 

Mar 12 – “Long morning of reading. Tea at Mrs. Will’s to meet Rose Clark. Spread in Dorothy’s room this evening.” 

 

Mar 13 – “Read ‘Monna Vanna’ I.R.M. in bed. Called on Reuben’s family and Mrs Bailey. Started regular evening work 
with Darwin.” 

 

Mar 14 – “A domestic day. Worked on Dorothy’s green dress - wrote letters - luncheon alone -down town - evening with 
children.” 


 

Mar 15 – “Lovely time this morning arranging house for Thekla and Miss Windsor’s ‘evening’. Nap this afternoon. 20 
guests this evening – lovely time.” 

 

Mar 16 – “Wretched day with ulcerated throat. In bed nearly all day.” 

 

Mar 17 – “Table decorations in honor of St. Pat – perfectly killing! No church for us to-day. Miss Sackett [?] and Miss 
Parshall here for supper.” 

 

Mar 18 – “Read all this morning. Afternoon at dentist’s.” 

 

Mar 19 – “I.R.M. away all day. Took flowers to Mrs. Clifton, mushrooms to Mame. Lunched at Ida’s & brought her 
home with me for the afternoon.” 

 

Mar 20 – “Morning in car with I.R.M. Afternoon musicale at Mrs. Baileys. Evening alone with children.” 

 

Mar 21 – “Luncheon at Munders with I.R.M. Miss Weisner and Mrs. Van ----[scribbled line]. Errands later. Evening 
spent in looking up Cathedral route to Lake District.” 

 

Mar 22 blank 

Mar 23 blank 

 

Mar 24 – “Went to early service then called on Will for a serious talk. Bartons here for luncheon. Mildred Windsor 
called. Walked at sunset with the children. Read Science literature this eve to I.R.M.” 

 

Mar 25 – “Miss Mueller here taking I.R.M’s pictures this morning. Had front crown put on at Dr Fay’s this afternoon.” 

 

Mar 26 – “I.R.M. in Rochester. Luncheon with Munder. Shopped for European clothes. Had hair shampooed. Mr 
Mowrey[?] and Benedict here for dinner.” 

 

Mar 27 – “[clur first ]: Read this morning. Luncheon at Ida’s who went with us later to have my suit fitted. Saw 
Miss Beal’s picture later at Gallery with her and I.R.M. ‘Clarkie’ and Mary here for dinner.” 

 

Mar 28 – “Down town selecting I.R.M.’s suit. Read ‘A Summer on a Doge’s Farm’, then had a nice nap. Quiet home 
evening.” 

 

Mar 29 – “Down town this morning. Rested all afternoon both of us for Parkside Club ‘Evening’ here at which Thekla 
read.” 

 

Mar 30 – “I.R.M. and Dorothy in Rochester all day. Proofs of I.R.M’s pictures a great joy! Grieg afternoon at Chromatic 
Club. Two new men at office dined here.” 

Mar 31 – “Mr McKenzie from Cambridge over night. Children and I dined at Fosters. Vespers – Stabat Mater at First 
Church. Evening at home.” 

 

April 1 – “I.R.M. in bed all morning. Met her with car at Mrs Simpsons at four and went and selected her suit.” 

 

Apr 2 – “At home alone all day until 3. Met I.R.M. downtown & did errands. Evening given to the children’s lessons.” 

 

Apr 3 – “Saw I.R.M. off for R. this morning train late and read to her. Suit fitted. Called on Betty C., Mrs Clifton & S. 
out this afternoon. Met I.R.M. on Empire. Bartons here this [sic] for dinner.” 


 

Apr 4 – “Luncheon at Thekla’s with Mary Larned.” 

 

Apr 5 – “Selected plants most of the morning in greenhouse for Easter giving. Crawfords and Mrs Parmelee out this 
afternoon. C.S. lecture to-night. Dorothy in my room sewing on birthday gifts.” 

 

Apr 6 – “Miss Mueller’s last morning here. Margaret C. telephoned me at 2:30 of her father’s death. Spent rest of day 
with Ida.” 

 

Apr 7 – “Easter Sunday – morning with Ida. Lovely thoughtful things were done for us by Isabelle all day. Supper at the 
Bartons.” 

 

Apr 8 – “Carried lilies from the greenhouse to Ida and did errands. Service at three conducted by Mr Foster. Ball at the 
Larkins this evening. Isabelle so lovely in her Japanese coat just fresh from Japan!” 

 

Apr 9 – I.R.M’s birthday – morning with her. Afternoon with Dorothy before the fire sewing. Lovely evening with 
Darwin on his mother’s coat-of-arms. Saw Mr. Lord today – taught Mary [A ].” 

 

Apr 10 – “F.D.C’s birthday. At Ida’s again. Tea with Mame and Bertha hearing about their trip.” 

 

Apr 11 – “Dorothy responsive to ‘Dorothy Wordsworth’ in a charming manner.” 

 

Apr 12 – “Munder’s birthday. I.R.M. & D. in Rochester to-day so got Ida and brought her out for luncheon. Mary here 
for the night.” 

 

Apr 13 – “Down town shopping and marketing. Saw ‘Pomander Walk’ with Dorothy this afternoon.” 

 

Apr 14 – “Early service - call on Ida. Mr Bailey and Leonard here for dinner. Afternoon in our rooms writing letters, 
Isabelle and I” 

 

Apr 15 – “Dentist. Mrs Martin and Mrs Mourey[?] took us down to attend Anna Allen’s[?] wedding. First hint to-night of 
‘Titanic’ disaster.” 

 

Apr 16 – “Visited ‘Seminary’ and Ida this A.M. also shopped.” 

 

Apr 17 – “Took this day easily as my head is on a strike” 

 

Apr 18 – “Minds too full of ‘Titanic’ to do anything. Dined at Sarah Clifton’s this evening with Bertha (her birthday!) 
Mame and Frances.” 

 

Apr 19 – “Visited Mrs Will for the first time. Luncheon at Mrs Mourey’s. Dentist. Mr Burdette here for dinner and the 
evening. “The worst feared for ‘Titanic’ realized from arrival of Carpathia.” 

 

Apr 20 – “Waited all morning to read ‘Justice.’ The Wills right after luncheon followed by a long ride down the river. 
Early dinner and to bed. Mr Martin dining down town. Mr. Tate here over Sun.” 

 

Apr 21 – “Early service. Mrs Foster much disturbed over our ‘going’ so walked in Park with Isabelle at noon for hour or 
more. Had tea with Thekla. The Simpsons here. Isabelle ‘talked’ with Mr M. to-night.” 

 

Apr 22 – “Another nerve exposed and killed to-day. Rain prevented much shopping between treatment and dentistry.” 


 

Apr 23 – “Mrs Mourey for luncheon and shopped with us this afternoon.” 

 

Apr 24 – “Wonderful concert this evening given by London Symphony conducted by Nikisch. Tschaikowsky’s ‘Pathique 
and Siegfried Idyl were so wonderful!” 

 

Apr 25 – “Rather tired after last night’s feast so we have taken the day easily without Mr Martin’s being at home this 
evening.” 

 

Apr 26 – “Visited with Ida quite awhile at Mrs Will’s thus saw Bertha about Darwin and went to Dr Fay’s. Mr Wessells 
dined with us this evening.” 

 

Apr 27 – “Isabelle and Dorothy down town most of day. ‘Lena Kirby’ and her mother called this afternoon. Mr Martin not 
at home this evening – read before fire while Kahle children were here.” 

 

Apr 28 – “Early service – sitting with Ida & Mrs Foster. Home and found Isabelle had not gone to church – read Mr J’s 
poems to her. Mr Wessells dined here.” 

 

Apr 29 – “Morning reading Agnes Repplier’s ‘Points of View’. Long afternoon at dentist’s. First concert of the Festival 
this evening with Mr and Mrs M.” 

 

Apr 30 – “”Isabelle saw Dr Stearns this A.M. and we spent rest of morning in Park. Afternoon resting for this evening’s 
concert at which I took Dorothy. The Ninth Symphony the feature!” 

 

May 1 – “Down town. Munder here for luncheon. Made calls this afternoon. Alone this evening with Isabelle and didn’t 
go to church.” 

 

May 2 – “Wretched headache all day.” 

 

May 3 – “Mrs Schibel’s [?] this morning and last visit at Dr Fay’s in afternoon, meeting Isabelle at Mrs. Wills at 4.30. 
Called on Grandma White on the way home. Evening alone with Isabelle before fire.” 

 

May 4 – “Sewed all the morning. Made seven calls this afternoon. Mr Wessells here for dinner and the evening.” 

 

May 5 – “Service with Thekla. Walk on Meadow at noon. Drive in the afternoon with Mr Martin and family – stopping 
at the Fosters. Mr & Mrs McKenzie of B. here for supper.” 

 

May 6 – “Down town. Luncheon at Mrs Wills. Dr Stearns here to see Isabelle at four. Evening reading – and quite a 
solemn time over I’s condition.” 

May 7 – “An ordinary day of shopping – reading etc.” 

 

May 8 – “Heavenly day! Errands and calls this morning. Drove to Lancaster with Isabelle and Mrs Simpson to see Mrs 
Davis’ wonderful garden! !! The S’s dined with us here at seven.” 

 

May 9 – “First call to packing this A.M. while Isabelle was down town. Mrs Schiebel’s and Mrs Will’s this afternoon. 
Very cold and rain. Alone with children tonight - D. entertaining .” 

 

May 10 – “Busy day of last things. Bartons, Mrs Howard and the Fosters in this evening.” 

 


May 11 – “Last day in Buffalo. Church – sat between Isabelle and Munder. Calls and telephone calls this afternoon. 
Dorothy got the supper and all the family came down to see me off at nine o’clock.” 

 

May 12 – “Springfield at 7.50. Breakfast at ‘The Massaoit’. Called on Lester, Aunt Sarah, Nell, Ruby. Grace and Miss 
Mary where I had luncheon. Arrived in Hartford at 4.40” 

 

May 13 –“Unpacked from Buffalo and packed for Greensboro this morning. Last missionary for the season at Mrs 
Thayer. Worked on shirt waists this evening.” 

 

May 14- “Sewed all day.” 

 

May 15 – “Same program of sewing. Spent evening with the Thayers seeing maps, postals, and books on Brittany.” 

 

May 16 – “All but F. and I. dining with the Wells and Bartons this evening. To-days sewing being varied by much 
shopping for my wrapper.” 

 

May 17 – “Mrs Hueghblais[?] here all day [ ]2 per. – not much good. Got passport and trunk today. Heard from 
Isabelle.” 

 

May 18 – “Rushing day on shirt waists with the housework. Hattie home at 3 P.M. and I left for Westville at 6.59.” 

 

May 19 – “Sunday. Westville. Arranged lilies of the valley while Anna finished breakfast work then we heard the 
Clark’s victrola. Lay down all afternoon. Home at 9.40 withTom.” 

 

May 20 – “Saw Dr. Abrams this A.M. Eyes all right but must wear glasses all the time. Sewed this afternoon. 
‘Canfield’with H. tonight.” 

 

May 21 – blank 

 

May 22 – “Work progressing well. Took an evening off and went down to hear the rehearsal of ‘Hiawatha’ (Taylor) 
given by the High School.” 

 

May 23 – “White wisteria and the Japanese azaleas are so beautiful.” 

 

May 24 – “Finished sewing. Shampoo this afternoon. Ames here for supper and after repeatedly losing trains – for the 
night.” 

 

May 25 – “Finishing last things.” 

 

May 26 – “Too tired for church. Finished packing – trunk off at 2.58. Charles left Greensboro at six. Hattie and I spent 
evening with the Thayers who walked home with us.” 

 

May 27 – “Saw Dr Abrams again and found Ames had brought Ilsa down for luncheon. Left at 2.58 and arrived at 
Hoboken at 6.45. Evening on board with Martins and Bournaus[?] perfectly lovely! Then we got settled!” 

 

May 28 – “’Kaiser Wilhelm II’ sailed at 10.15 with playing of German songs by bands on board and on the dock. Read 
our letters, telegrams, etc. Meals on deck. Everything most auspicious.” 

 

May 29 – “Run 504 miles to 10 A.M. Was discovered by Fanny Hadley Kimball and all her family! Weather perfect. 
Moderate sea. Music good – but my companions dearest of anything!” 


 

May 30- “Wonderfully blue sea all day. Run to 10 A.M. 520 miles. Afternoon in stateroom napping – reading ‘Mother’ 
and having tea. Most wonderful moon-light night I ever knew. Sat on deck reciting poetry & singing.” 

 

May 31 – “Perfect day again. Long talk with Fanny this morning. Afternoon in our stateroom finishing ‘Mother’. First 
appearance at dinner. Run 539 m.” 

 

June 1 – “Run 543 miles. Colder & northerly swell which is discomforting. In my berth since eleven. Isabel fresh as a 
lark.” 

 

Jun 2 - blank 

 

Jun 3 – “Landed Plymouth – a beautiful harbor – at four, and at Cherbourg at 10 P.M. Night at Hotel du Casino – run by 
North German Lloyd people – Mrs Callander and Louise also here.” 

 

Jun 4 – “A comfortable morning – rain – before our open fire. Bayeux this afternoon to see tapestry. Fire this evening – 
cards etc. Most comfortable hotel! Normandy picturesque with gray houses, red tiled roofs, yellow robes[?]” 

 

Jun 5 – “Left for Pontorson[?] at 8.40. Luncheon (very poor) at The Bretagne. Drove to Mont St. Michel gathered 
poppies, which we enjoyed this rainy evening, in the candle and fire light, in my room.” 

 

Jun 6 – “Wonderful Mont St. Michel! Spent morning going over Abbey etc. Rested 4 hrs after luncheon, then took guide 
and walked round the Mont at sunset. Valerian covers the fortifications at intervals, gorgeous crimson.” 

 

Jun 7 – “Left the Mont at 8.40 and arrived at Vitre[?] for luncheon. Took Victoria and drove to Chateau des Roches. Left 
Vitre[?] for night at Le Mans. Picked yellow roses at the Chateau.” 

 

Jun 8 – “Left Le Mans, after seeing cathedral, at noon and arrived at Tours at 3. Lunch at Potur’s[?], arrangements made 
for limousine at $100 for eight days – 100 miles per day. Comfortably located at Villa La Pierre.” 

 

Jun 9 – “Tours – Sunday. Breakfast in our rooms – then read aloud the Lesson. Wrote letters until luncheon. Afterward 
napped and read ‘The Terrible Week.’ Tea at 4.30 then a lovely two hours motor trip. Dined at T. evening in our rooms 
before fires.” 

 

Jun 10 – “Delay in starting but finally had a beautiful day visiting Amboine and Chenonceau. Napped upon our return, 
dined, read from Renaissance Chateaux. Perfect weather, but dust very fine & disagreeable.” 

 

June 11 – “Down in the shops all the morning. After a three hours rest started for Langeais. A hard shower while we 
were in the Chateau made the ride home by Azay le Rideau very beautiful. Stopped at pottery.” 

 

Jun 12 – “Saw the sights in Tours to-day with Isabelle alone this morning.. and with both this afternoon. Wonderful trees 
at Marmontier. Nearly finished reading ‘The Pigeon’ this evening. Hot to-day.” 

 

Jun 13 – “Cooler, perfect day for Blois and Chambord – the latter tremendous in size but disappointing. 

 

Jun 14 – “Saw Loches to-day – the bloodiest of all the chateaux. Home about four and did more errands. Isabelle and I 
dined in our rooms.” 

 

Jun 15 – “Lovely morning at Vouvray visiting a wine press, rock house and vineyard from which we had a beautiful view. 
Saw wedding afterward in the church. Potuis[?] this afternoon and drive later to Luynes[?].” 


 

Jun 16 – “Our last day in this blessed Tours! Packed this morning, and this afternoon went to see Chaumont - the 
loveliest of all the chateaus to me. Read the Lesson this evening then to bed.” 

 

Jun 17 – “Left Tours at 8.45 – arrived Paris 12.05. The Dysart does not impress us so favorably as formerly and Paris in 
summer seems impossible. Had shampoo this afternoon – tea – and window shopping.” 

 

Jun 18 – “Morning at 11 Rue Scribs[?] and at Liberty’s 3 rue des Capencines[?]. After Mrs Edetröne’s call on Isabelle we 
went to the Bon Marchi.” 

 

Jun 19 – “Shopped this morning at Galleris Lafayette. This afternoon’s shower tempered the heat so that tea at Mr 
Edetröne’s studio was a pleasure.” 

 

Jun 20 – “Morning sight-seeing in the Latin Quarter. Rested this afternoon, then had an hour in the Louvre. At five went 
for tea at ‘Valentine’s’ 20 rue des Belles Feuilles. Edetrönes here this evening/” 

 

Jun 21 – “Drove in the Bois then did some shopping. Packed.” 

 

Jun 22 – “Left Paris this noon. Very hot ride to Calais. Smooth crossing. Locked into trains so we had to go thro’ to 
Canterbury and give up Canterbury. The Dysart full and located at The Russell Hotel.” 

 

Jun 23 – “London is country compared with Paris. Rested this morning and about three started on a lovely motor ride to 
Stoke Poges. Sunday.” 

 

Jun 24 – “Shopped at Peter Robinson’s[?] nearly all day. Music here in the hotel very enjoyable.” 

 

Jun 25 – “In Hotel this morning. After luncheon went to the Temple, and had my choicest experience of all London. 
Shopped a bit afterward at Jaegers[?].” 

 

Jun 26 – “I.R.M’s wedding anniversary – 1889. Left via Midland R.R. at 9.30 and arrived at Ambleside via Lakeside at 
7.15. A lovely restful day on trains, though long.” 

 

Jun 27 – “D.R.M’s 16th birthday – rain all day. Shopped for books and got letter of introduction to Miss Arnold. Isabelle 
‘all in’ with sick headache, so we had a fire and read ‘The Vicar of Wakefield.’” 

 

Jun 28 – “Motor trip up to ‘wishing-gate’ first then thro’ Grasmere up the west side of Thirlmere to Kenwick. Home by 
Druid’s Circle and east side of Thirlmere. Evensong in church at Grasmere. I.R.M. with us in evening. Anniversary” 

 

Jun 29 – “This must be transposed with 28th. I.R.M. got up after luncheon and we drove to Grasmere, visiting Dove 
Cottage. Sat on rock-seat at Rydal. Walked up to Stock Ghyll Falls on our return.” 

 

Jun 30 – “Sunday – Ambleside. Church – then walked along the Rothay and sat and read Wordsworth.” 

 

July 1 – “Our Coniston Day! The visit at ‘Brantwood’, Ruskin’s house, very satisfactory. Luncheon on a real, live moor. 
Hours by the Langdales, and saw Mrs Humphrey Ward’s house ‘Robui Glyle’[?].” 

 

Jul 2 – “At house this morning. This afternoon drove to ‘Fox How’, & were most hospitably and kindly received by Miss 
Arnold thro’ the courtesy of Mr Banks.” 

 


Jul 3 – “Furness Abbey Day! Stopping en route at The Priory at Cartrüel. Windy and disagreeable, and less interesting 
scenery than other days until we reached the ruin.” 

 

Jul 4 – “Wrote all this morning. Disappointed in our trip this afternoon with Mrs Banks – her daughter so we went down 
by the Rothay and read ‘The Vicar of Wakefield’ which we finished this evening.” 

 

Jul 5 – “At house working over Wordsworth selections this morning. Started at 1.30 for Borrowdale, Stopping at Dove 
Cottage again and the church. Wonderful terrace drive on the way back to Keswick. Visited Pencil Factory. Dinner at 
Thirlspot. home 8.30” 

 

Jul 6 – “Letters, errands, etc this morning. Drove to Skelwith Bridge this afternoon and had tea on the grass near the 
Hotel. Visited the waterfall and read aloud.” 

 

Jul 7 – “Sunday – and still we remain in this lovely Ambleside. Started about ten for the Langdale Place in Victoria. 
Stopped at little church – and in a grove of trees to read. Luncheon, nap, Dungeon Ghyll, home at seven.” 

 

Jul 8 – “Mr William’s wife died in the night so we took Victoria again. Drove to Coniston via Tarn Howe, having 
wonderful moor experience en route. Luncheon, nap etc at Crown Hotel – home at 6.30.” 

 

Jul 9 – “Somewhat used up with my side so we stayed at home this morning. Drove to Grasmere, service again, visited 
nursery garden. Read ‘Parsifal’ from Mr Dewhurst this evening. I.R.M. with us later.” 

 

Jul 10 – “Started Dorothy knitting this rainy day and read ‘Everyman’. Cleared a little while this afternoon and we drove 
to Father Faber’s Church – picked harebells in the churchyard.” 

 

Jul 11 – “Walked over Red Banks – to Grasmere. Luncheon at Red Lion wretched, but forgotten by most successful 
shopping! Walked on the high road back from G. to Rydal – Wordsworth’s walk. Evening in out sitting room.” 

 

Jul 12 – “Over Kirkstone Pass to Ullswater and around thro’ St John’s Vale home – a wonderful day! Tea again at the 
dear little Inn at Thirlspot.” 

 

Jul 13 – “At home this morning doing last things. This afternoon took the Borrowdale drive again, having tea at 
Rosthwaite in the garden. Wonderful talk with Isabelle tonight.” 

 

Jul 14 – “Our last Sunday – and at The Langdales hearing a bit of the service in the little church on ‘Friendship’. Day 
very hot. Stopped at Brathay church on way home, the most beautifully situated of all!” 

 

Jul 15 – “Hot still. Left by coach – rode inside – and were driven by a Pickwickian to Windermere where we took the 
train for Liverpool. Adelphia Hotel cool and attractive. Have had a pleasant drive in Sefton Park this evening.” 

 

Jul 16 – “Heat & humidity great! Visited Walker Gallery this morning and were more than charmed by ‘Danri[?] and the 
Rossetti’s. Left at 6.20 for Chester where we are comfortably located to-night at The Grosvenor.” 

 

Jul 17 – “’Dear & quaint’ indeed is Chester! Service at Cathedral this morning and glimpses into the shops along the 
Rows. A nap after luncheon, and then we drove to Eaton Hall.” 

 

Jul 18 – “Our funny glimpse of Wales is a 17 mile drive to Loggerhead Inn where we couldn’t get dinner! First however 
we visited Hawarden – Carth[?] and Church which are lovely!” 

 


Jul 19 – “Very cold still. Shopped with Isabelle and read ‘Major Vigoureux’. Drove about Chester this afternoon, and 
read aloud this evening.” 

 

Jul 20 – “Service with D. this morning – then a rush to do last errands, pack, and take 11.50 train for Liverpool. 
Luncheon at The Adelphi, left at 3.30 for ‘Caronia’[?] which embarked at five. Early to bed.” 

 

Jul 21 – “Sunday – at sea. Anchored at Queenstown, after a very calm night, about 7.30. Attended service with D. in the 
Salon at 10.30. Run up to twelve this noon 312 miles. Distance to N.Y. from Queenstown 2949.” 

 

Jul 22 – “Showery, windy, most disagreeable day, making us all feel ‘unhappy in our interiors’. Run 467 miles to noon. 
Came into sunshine about five and calmer seas make us hope for a good day.” 

 

Jul 23 – “Clouds, and wind still, but a smooth sea, so that I could read ‘Major Vigoureux’ and be up and out all day with 
comfort. Run 460.” 

 

Jul 24 – “Warmer to-day, with miserable fogs. 451 miles only which precludes our docking Sat. night. Fog lifted about 
seven and we are in for a windy night with some rain.” 

 

Jul 25 – “Heavy seas with much pitching. Humidity less. In stateroom most of day. Run 384 miles up to noon. 
Wonderful cloud effects in the moonlight to-night! Sat out on lower deck with Isabelle.” 

 

Jul 26 – “Worst cyclone from five to eight this morning the Captain ever was in! Run 415 miles. 703 miles from 
Ambrose Light. Sunny skies followed with wonderful color on water. Rough again to-night, early to bed.” 

 

Jul 27 – “A perfect day, calm sea, fresh, salty air delicious to breathe. Sports this afternoon. Nantucket Lightship passed 
about two. Quarantine to-night.” 

 

Jul 28 – “Docked at 8.30. Mr Martin met us. Luncheon at the Belmont. Train for Boston with Dorothy at three where we 
are spending the night at Hotel Westminster.” 

 

Jul 29 – “Met the girls South Station at 9.15 and saw them off for Camp at 2.45 at Brownfield. St. J. at 6.35 where I met 
Hattie and Margaret on G train. Camp at 9.30. Quite a day’s travel!” 

 

July 30 – “Busy day settling. Calls from Mrs Bowers, May, Mrs Votey, Mrs Eliot, Mrs Woodruff and Mrs Ayer, and 
Mrs Dewhurst. Cold and disagreeable weather.” 

 

July 31 – “Wrote letters this morning. Dined at May Slocum’s with Hattie. Miss Wheeler, A.L.L’s guest, came in for 
afternoon tea. Charles arrived this evening from Paris, Maine.” 

 

August 1 – “Finished settling this morning – wrote Isabelle - got ferns etc from the woods. Long nap this afternoon, 
called on Mrs Maier and Mrs Gillespie, read ‘The Street Called Straight’. Johnson concert this evening. Walked.” 

 

Aug 2 – “C. left this morning for Barre and Montpelier golf. Have enjoyed crocheting on Harriet’s afghan.” 

 

Aug 3 – “Awfully cold and showers every other minute. Mrs Bowers here for luncheon. Frederic and Charlie came this 
evening.” 

 

Aug 4 – “First Sunday in Camp. Sing conducted by Prof Woodruff at Mrs Serkins. Played later with Charlie at the Farm. 
Mrs Dewhurst here this evening for supper.” 

 


Aug 5 – “Rain & cold continues. A nice call from Elsa Allen late this afternoon. The Serkins and Snyder aunts here this 
evening to look at my postals.” 

 

Aug 6 – “Actually sunny and warm enough to sit on veranda! Beau and Dorothy came about two – nice call on them over 
the tea-cups later.” 

 

Aug 7 – “Wrote letters to Miss Mary who is going to lose[?] Annie – and to Munder.” 

 

Aug 8 – “Worked hard to finish my part on Harriet’s afghan. Finished also ‘The Street called Straight’. Long calls from 
Mrs Bowers and Mrs Gillespie.” 

 

Aug 9 – “Walked to village with Hattie this morning. Long nap in consequence. At home this evening with no callers for 
a wonder!” 

 

Aug 10 – “Beau and Dorothy made a long call this morning. Drove to village this afternoon & walked home. Finished S. 
C. Jewett’s letters at one sitting!” 

 

Aug 11 – “Sunday. C. & H. went to Hardwick this morning to preach./ Sing at Mrs Ayer’s. Supper at Mrs. Dewhurst’s – 
evening of Beau’s pictures.” 

 

Aug 12 – “Second picking of spinach. Went to village with Frederic. Paddled this evening with Dorothy, Beau, and 
‘Fred’ in the new canoe. Music later at Mrs Ayer’s.” 

 

Aug 13 – “Boiling hot day - crocheted and read most of day. First real starlight-night since we came.” 

 

Aug 14 – “Hot day ending in most severe rain, hail, and thunder-storms about five, spoiling picnic with Dewhurst family 
who came here for veranda supper. My postals shown.” 

 

Aug 15 – “C. H. F. and Mrs D. gone to St. J pageant. A lovely quiet day doing a heap of things.” 

 

Aug 16 – “Called on Winifred and Florence Waterman this morning – The Maiers – Mr & Mrs here for supper.” 

 

Aug 17 – “Crocheted most of morning. Walked to village this afternoon and call on Mrs Lord thro whom I heard of Anna 
Diller. Tom came tonight. Charlie gone to Woodstock for Sunday.” 

 

Aug 18 – “Rainy Sunday – service at Mrs Robinson’s conducted by Mr Lord. Mary Eliot and her guest Frances 
Richardson here for supper!” 

 

Aug 19 – “Charlie returned about two. Nice calls from Dr Houghton and Mr Bancroft. H. and I made calls after it.” 

 

Aug 20 – “Beautiful day! Mrs Ayers – her mother, and two aunts here for afternoon tea. Moon and Jupiter wonderful to-
night – walked up to Young’s – nice letter from Munder on return.” 

 

Aug 21 – “Very quiet day.” 

 

Aug 22 – “Lyon came to-day. A fine concert this evening at the Johnsons. Victrola assisted by male quartet.” 

 

Aug 23 – “Rainy day as usual. A few of us listened to Mr. Snyder read ‘Christianity & the Social Question’ at Mrs 
Hickoks[?]. Played with C. awhile this evening.” 

 


Aug 24 – “Worked on floor. Helen came about eleven from Indianapolis. Walked to village this afternoon. C. & H. to 
Burlington for over Sunday. Grace & Mary giving dance to-night. Herrick came this A.M.” 

 

Aug 25 – “Day of many showers and much humidity. Sing at Mrs Ayer’s led by Mr Maier. Beautiful moon-light row 
with Lyon!” 

 

Aug 26 – “Rainy day and doing nothing outside our home.” 

 

Aug 27 – “Cold. Hattie and Charlie returned from Burlington about noon nearly frozen.” 

 

Aug 28 – “Bag-party for Miss Cheney[?] at Mrs Luken’s this afternoon a great success. Played trios at Grace’s this 
evening.” 

 

Aug 29 – “Uneventful day - the chief pleasure a long talk with Dorothy this afternoon over her tea-cups and the row to the 
village for my express package from Buffalo.” 

 

Aug 30 – “42° this morning! Bitter all day and I haven’t left the fire. Wrote six letters. Eighteen have already left Camp.” 

 

Aug 31 – “Warmer. The Fred Whitings here for summer. Beautiful evening. Walked to Millers with Mrs. D. – saw 
wonderful meteor!” 

 

September 1 – “Sunday – rain – stripped fir balsam all day. Trios with Helen this evening.” 

 

Sep 2 – “Packed. Received and made calls.” 

 

Sep 3 – “Left E. Hardwick at 7.41 A.M. leaving luggage to be forwarded – it seeming to be not my day for travel, BUT 
came down with Mrs. D. in Mr. Vail’s car! Great trip!” 

 

Sep 4 – “Meals with Tom at 17 Beach St. Humidity 97% makes house-cleaning a bit difficult!” 

 

Sep 5 – “Heat & humidity continues – also getting house to rights” 

 

Sep 6 – “At home working all day. Charlie arrived with Margaret - and Edith also has come for a week-end.” 

 

Sep 7 – “Showed Edith at intervals European treasures. Mrs Howard took us for a drive thro’ Elizabeth and Keeney 
Parks.” 

 

Sep 8 – “Sunday – a little less warm. Let Margaret have the day, so have been busy myself all day – though accompanied 
Charlie quite a bit.” 

 

Sep 9 – “Edith went to Boston at 11.08. Have done a bit of sewing and of shopping to-day.” 

 

Sep 10 – “Heat perfectly terrible still.” 

 

Sep 11 – “Woman here all day cleaning floors. Rugs brought back at four and are down! Showers broke the heat record 
at last.” 

 

Sep 12 – “Unsuccessful search for clothes this morning. Preparatory lecture this evening. 30 degrees cooler to-day.” 

 

Sep 13 – “Marketing and sewing on drawers seem to have filled my day pretty well.” 


 

Sep 14 – “Market again this morning. Hattie arrived from Greensboro after four. Lyon back for over Sunday.” 

 

Sep 15 – “Wretched day – rheumatism much stirred up from massage last night! Very hot and humid again.” 

 

Sep 16 – “Much excited over Isabelle’s proposition to meet her in Boston the 30th and to have three weeks in the 
mountains with her. Morning in dark attic hunting up books.” 

 

Sep 17 – “Bought dress at Jerome Sage’s [?] and got waist started at Mrs H’s. Wrote letters & sewed on drawers.” 

 

Sep 18 – “Harriet’s and Lester’s little girl born this morning. Sewed all day.” 

 

Sep 19 – “Down town twice to-day. Heat & humidity worse than ever!” 

 

Sep 20 – “Cooler to-day. Made grape jelly this morning. Called on Mrs Kimball and Alice this afternoon.” 

 

Sep 21 – “Final fitting at Fox’s this morning.” 

 

Sep 22 – “Church this morning. Christine Newton here for supper.” 

 

Sep 23 – “Went to Springfield at eight this A.M. Bought hat, then called on Aunt Sarah, Grace & Miss Mary. Luncheon 
at Nell’s. Ames took me in to see ‘Barbara’. Home at 6” 

 

Sep 24 – “Miserable cold weather after so much heat. Sewed nearly all day.” 

 

Sep 25 – “Wretched day with digestive upset.” 

 

Sep 26 – “Another quiet day trying to get straightened out.” 

 

Sep 27 – “Down town this morning and this afternoon. Nice talk with Dr. Abrams.” 

 

Sep 28 – “Busy day packing to go to Boston.” 

 

Sep 29 – “Sunday. Left at 10.20 for Boston. Had an hour’s wait in Springfield and a visit from Grace. Found the Martins 
delightfully located at the new Copley Plaza and here I am in Boston!!” 

 

Sep 30 – “Left late this morning for luncheon with Laura & her friends at Wellesley Inn. Loved the Chapel and A.F.P. 
Memorial! Home about six and dined in our room – two weary ladies.” 

 

October 1 – “A long hour in Trinity ending at noon with the first service of the year. Visited Shreve[? ] Crump[?] and 
Louis. Lunched at The Bellevue. Read ‘My Robin’ aloud in Lauriat while it rained – call from Edith this eve” 

 

Oct 2 – Left Boston at 11.30 this morning. On arriving at Pittsfield at four - found train had been taken off, so we had tea 
at The Wendell and walked about & bought Xmas cards until six.” 

 

Oct 3 – “Darwin’s 12th birthday and our first day in Stockbridge. Had a lovely walk this A.M. sitting out at Heaton Hall, 
and drive this afternoon to The Bowl. Fire to-night in our ‘Franklin’ and lovely poetry on this locality” 

 

Oct 4 – “Drove to Lee[?] for a hat for I.R.M this morning and home thro’ some of the beautiful Lenox estates. Picked 
fringed gentaurs ! Read Frothingham’s article on Maeterlinck this evening.” 


 

Oct 5 – “Read Matthew Arnold’s ‘Wordsworth’ this A.M. in cemetery. Wonderful drive to Lenox itself – tea Tally ho Inn 
– and home at sunset, crown of drive I am sure. Began Jane Addam’s “A New Conscience’” 

 

Oct 6 – “( Ruth’s baby born six this evening) Sunday. Stockbridge, very warm. Spent morning in rooms. 30 cars of 
people extra for dinner. Afternoon in cemetery reading Science article by Mr Dixon. Tried to go to St. Paul’s this eve. – 
no service.” 

 

Oct 7 – “Wrote letters all the morning and drove to Great Barrington this afternoon. Coming back by the river - Glendale 
Drive – thro’ Housatoui[?] was very beautiful. Talked down-stairs a little with our friends Mrs Evans and Mrs Butler.” 

 

Oct 8 – “Much colder to-day. Drove this morning for chestnuts. Wrote letters and napped this afternoon. Read aloud all 
the evening Jane Addam’s book.” 

 

Oct 9 – “Cloudy day and moderating for rain. Finished ‘Jane’ and read Crother’s ‘The [Co ]of Rome Shampoo 
this evening.” 

 

Oct 10 – “Beautiful drive to Tyringham! Home thro’Fernside – stopping at Crow’s Nest for tea.” 

 

Oct 11 – “Rained off and on all day. Shaker Ladies with their wares here. Walk at sunset. Began ‘The Street Called 
Straight’ this evening.” 

 

Oct 12 – “No voice for reading most distressing! Drove to Lenox, visited observatory on ‘The Aspinwall’ – tea at The 
Tally-ho.” 

. 

Oct 13 – “Sunday. Lovely walk on Laurel Hill this morning. Read ‘Lesson’in the Cemetery again.” 

 

Oct 14 – “Drove to Pittsfield – pleased with The Maplewood but decided to remain here. Home late – very cold.” 

 

Oct 15 – “Wretched day of suffering for Isabelle. Read ‘The Street Called Straight.’” 

 

Oct 16 – “Finished ‘Street Called Straight’. Hattie & Charlie here for luncheon, guests of the Haydens. Drove over Bear 
Mountain.” 

 

Oct 17 – “Read outdoors and in to-day. Worked on Dorothy’s sewing-bag. Mrs Evans in our room for a while this 
evening.” 

 

Oct 18 – “Perfect day. Drove by Daniel French’s house at Glendale to Long Pond. Walked a long distance high ridge 
road – wonderful pines above boulders against blue sky.” 

 

Oct 19 – “Rainy day. Read Progressive Platform articles – and ‘Milestones’ by Arnold Bennett, a disappointing play.” 

 

Oct 20 – “Sunday – lovely day. Walked this morning, and spent afternoon reading in the cemetery.” 

 

Oct 21 – “Took our last drive in The Berkshires this afternoon. West Stockbridge etc. This morning walked up to Mr 
Choate’s place.” 

 

Oct 22 – “Charming experience to-day at The Crafts in Sheffield.” 

 

Oct 23 – “Pouring rain all day – and our last day! Tried to read Ellen Key’s ‘Love and Marriage’ but with little interest.” 


 

Oct 24 – “Left Stockbridge at 1.22. Got on wrong train at Pittsfield but were able to change at Chathany and get to 
Albany promptly. Most comfortably located at Ten Eyck.” 

 

Oct 25 – “Shopped this morning – saw lovely ring. Pouring rain to Kingston with not much let up until we arrived at 
Phoenicia. Cold here and feather beds look good!” 

 

Oct 26 – “Met Mr Martin at station 8.20. Mr. Spink [?] also. Drove to ‘Fork’ where Darwin met us, thence to the new 
buildings in the Woodland Valley and on to Roxmore.” 

 

Oct 27 – “Sunday - bright sunshine. Had Lesson together on side veranda then walked about grounds. Left at 5 for 
Kingston. Supper Hotel Stuyvesant. Home by miserable West Shore.” 

 

Oct 28 – “Dorothy met us at station. Got settled this AM. Anna came this afternoon helped me on claim question, then 
we had tea with ‘bunch’ from Virgil class. Our ‘work’ seems to be Joseph.” 

 

Oct 29 – “Met Dr Stearns and State Inspector at Joseph’s and arrangements are made for carrying his wife to Hospital.” 

 

Oct 30 – “Saw Polish priest this morning and made attempts to get out to Chictowaga[Cheektowaga].. Luncheon at 
Munder’s – Ida & Anna there also. Errands later, then home.” 

 

Oct 31 – “Morning at Superintendent of the Poor Office and children are committed to St Vincent’s. Delivered flowers 
first and saw Mrs. Hughes.” 

 

November 1 – “Miserable rainy, blowy day. Shopped for Joseph’s children and carried them to St Vincent’s this 
afternoon.” 

 

Nov 2 – “Marketing – nice call on Jessie and this afternoon one on Anna. Bartons here for dinner.” 

 

Nov 3 – “First Sunday back in Buffalo, early service with Ida. Walked home with her. The Simpsons here for dinner. 
The Fosters and Wills called in the afternoon.” 

 

Nov 4 – “Mrs Schiebel’s luncheon down town, shopping. Home for tea with Munder, Ida and Anna, who goes to-night. 
Played Pedro this evening Isabelle joining us!” 

 

Nov 5 - blank 

 

Nov 6 – “Decorated with chrysanthemums for tea given for the Old Ladies Home. Thirty came and we are happy over the 
success of it.” 

 

Nov 7 – “Rain – treatment (hair) this morning and errands. Call upon Mrs Kennedy this afternoon.” 

 

Nov 8 – “Call on Miss Angell, then to Munder’s for luncheon. Call at the Reidpaths, then home for dinner. Read Virgil 
this evening.” 

 

Nov 9 – blank 

 

Nov 10 – “Sunday. Early church. Marion Tanner and Esther here for dinner. Supper at Thekla’s.” 

 


Nov 11 – “Isabelle in bed this morning. Had ‘hair treatment’ this afternoon. Mrs Mowrey and Benedict here for dinner. 
Evening - victrola etc.” 

 

Nov 12 – “Down town in first bus this A.M. Read ‘A Listener in Babel’, napped, then went for tea at Mrs Spears. Alone 
this evening with Isabelle.” 

 

Nov 13 – “Isabelle in Rochester. Luncheon with Mame. Various calls today. Rain and warm.” 

 

Nov 14 – “Quiet, rather used-up-day for both of us.” 

 

Nov 15 – “Munder here for luncheon.” 

 

Nov 16 – “Down town with Dorothy all the morning. Agnes Repplier and Chromatic Club this afternoon.” 

 

Nov 17 – “Heard Pres Burton at First Church. Mr & Mrs M. & D. Miss Nardrops[?] here for dinner and long afternoon. 
Quiet evening and early to bed.” 

 

Nov 18 – “Spent morning giving Isabelle a résumé of Marion Harland’s ‘Autobiography.’ Hair treatment this afternoon, 
and an evening alone. D. and her mother hearing Schleiman Heinck[?].” 

 

Nov 19 – “Club morning – paper by May Staples. Decorated after luncheon for dinner given for ‘Marion Harland’, her 
daughter, and Mr. Wessells. A charming home-atmosphere evening!!” 

 

Nov 20 – “A wonderful day at the Falls - warm – brilliant sunshine – wind and mist just right for perfection of detail. A 
day to be remembered by Isabelle and me as well as by Christine & her mother.” 

 

Nov 21 – “Quiet day recovering until four when we took Mrs Terhune to the Twentieth Century Club for tea – Mrs 
Northrup’s guests.” 

 

Nov 22 – “Errands this morning – Mrs Morey & Mrs Barton. Tea guests - Mrs Mosher & Mdms Severance. Isabelle 
and Mr M. dining at Grandma’s to-night. ‘Clarkie’ with Dorothy.” 

 

Nov 23 – “Somewhat discouraging diagnosis from Dr Russell this morning.” 

 

Nov 24 – “Sunday, morning at home quietly with Isabelle. Terhune, Herrick, Wessells combination here for dinner.” 

 

Nov 25 – “Quiet home day – music, reading etc.” 

 

Nov 26 – “Preparations for to-morrow’s dinner – marketing meant being out in our first real snow-storm and gale.” 

 

Nov 27 – “First osteopathic treatment. Tea at Jane Mead Welsh’s. Clayton Miller, a Cornell student, arrived this evening 
for Thanksgiving.” 

 

Nov 28 – “Thanksgiving Day. The Fosters, the Reidpaths, and Mr Miller swelled our family to twelve. Isabelle & I too 
tired for Gadski-Kreisler recital so we enjoyed Victrola records of theirs.” 

 

Nov 29 – “Down town this morning. Mr. Miller left at three & Isabelle and I took long naps to rest up for Laurence 
Binyon’s lecture to-night at the Art Gallery.” 

 


Nov 30 – “Made four calls this morning and delivered cucumbers with Isabelle. Chromatic Club followed by a tea in the 
Club Rooms for Miss McComsell[?] by Mrs Deming. Called on Mrs Clifton.” 

 

December 1 – “Early service. Mrs Morey and Benedict here for dinner - also Mr Wessells . Callers this afternoon - 
making the usual busy Sunday.” 

 

Dec 2 – “Rain & wind – at home all day . Cross-stitched Helen D’s afghan. Mrs Morey & B. in for dinner.” 

 

Dec 3 – “Papers on Lake Country and Wordsworth at Club. Mrs Pray & Munder for luncheon. Dr Russells with Dorothy 
- down town. Kennedy dinner left D. & me alone.” 

 

Dec 4 – “Morning at home. Luncheon at Munder’s (twelve guests in honor Mrs Pray) Dr Russell’s at four – then down 
town.” 

 

Dec 5 blank 

Dec 6 blank 

 

Dec 7 – “Dr Russell’s and home for Isabelle seems all in with a cold.” 

 

Dec 8 – “Dull day, and an anxious one for me with Isabelle in bed - high temperature, chills, ear-ache etc.” 

 

Dec 9 – “Gale 74 miles an hour continues. Quiet day with Isabelle down on the south room sofa, pretty full of grippe to 
the square inch.” 

 

Dec 10 – “Still blowing. Fourth treatment at Dr Russells. Mr Martin out for dinner.” 

 

Dec 11 – blank 

 

Dec 12 – “Errands. Munder here with Isabelle – bringing Church Committee etc. Dorothy wretched with grippe.” 

 

Dec 13 – “Very cold. Mrs.Morey out with I. this morning and here for luncheon. Rest of day given to doing up Xmas 
presents.” 

 

Dec 14 – “Musicale at Thekla’s this morning – poor Dorothy a wreck. Eighteen errands this afternoon!” 

 

Dec 15 – “Early church. Home with Munder who later brought me out here. Rest of day did up Xmas presents. Isabelle 
entirely well apparently, but Dorothy worse from yesterday’s strain.” 

 

Dec 16 – “Played cribbage with D. nearly all day. Took flowers late this afternoon to Ida’s who with M. returns to-night. 
Got ring from D’s!” 

 

Dec 17 – “Call at Ida’s - shopping this morning. Dr. Russells for both Isabelle and me this afternoon.” 

 

Dec 18 – “Wonderful weather – sun and really hot! Down town this A.M. Isabelle lunching at Munder’s- much vacuum 
cleaning etc at home.” 

 

Dec 19 blank 

 

Dec 20 – “In bed with grip. Dr Russell came out & gave me relief from dizziness. Mrs Van Houn[?] here with much [ 
]” 


 

Dec 21 – “In bed except for having luncheon with Isabelle in the sitting-room. Darwin arrived this morning fat and 
happy. Mrs. Terhune’s 82nd birthday.” 

 

Dec 22 – “Xmas Sunday. Better but not able to go to church. Enjoyed however the carols played on corner by Salvation 
Army Band. Drove over to see Ida at noon & carried our gifts.” 

 

Dec 23 – “Busy day spent in the last doing up.” 

 

Dec 24 – “Spent all day practically in delivering gifts. Mrs R. and Margaret here for dinner after which we trimmed tree.” 

 

Dec 25 – “Wonderful Day! Began with stockings before the fire which Dorothy had filled with jokes -then the tree. 
Delivered a couple of gifts, stopped at Fosters, and under pine-tree! 18 here in evening.” 

 

Dec 26 – “Errands down town - bringing home Joseph’s children to luncheon. Reuben took them to see their mother, and 
Isabelle and I rested until dinner.” 

 

Dec 27 – “Treatment this morning from Dr R. Nice call from Ida this afternoon. . Left at 9.45 for a week in Hartford.” 

 

Dec 28 – “Arrived in Hartford 9.30 having ridden down from Sp. with Prof Perkins of Burlington. Found Edith here for 
the day.” 

 

Dec 29 – “Sunday. Hartford. Slept until late – practically all day. Went down and joined the carol-singing at Bushnell 
Park this evening thus heard F.D.C. play the organ.” 

 

Dec 30 – “Pouring rain – shopped all over Hartford for clothes and found nothing. Helen Dewhurst’s baby born 
yesterday. Edward Rieman Lewis, Jr.” 

 

Dec 31 – “The last day of this wonderful year! None can exceed it for happiness. A letter and ‘indulgence’ from I. Mr 
and Mrs. Willard of Lexington here for dinner.” 

 

1913 

 

January 1 – “Hartford. Beautiful day. Called on Aunt Iris with Hattie this A.M. Thayers here for afternoon tea. Dorothy 
having her first box at The Charity Ball to-night.” 

 

Jan 2 – “Sorry not to have felt able to go to Peekskill to-day. Visited Dr Case and had a very quiet day.” 

 

Jan 3 – “The Young Woman’s Society met this afternoon. 18 members present. Talked a bit on my ‘travels’. Fearful 
wind storm sweeping the Atlantic board - and us!” 

 

Jan 4 – “Went to Springfield this morning and bought a hat and shopped down town this afternoon.” 

 

Jan 5 – “Sunday – wretched day but am leaving just the same for Buffalo to-night. Gave up C. Falls this afternoon & 
expect to see Ames & Ruby in Sp. at train.” 

 

Jan 6 – “Arrived a half hour late – 10.30. Isabelle met me looking very white & tired so we visited hard the rest of day on 
the bed.” 

 


Jan 7 – “Hyatt Smith gave Ruskin paper at P.S. Club this morning and we had Mesdames Simpson, Morey, Staples, 
Bugbee and Merrill for luncheon.” 

 

Jan 8 – “A wonderful ice-world to-day which has shut us in away from everybody all day. Read Alice Meynell, Lanier 
and rested a lot. This evening put English postals in album.” 

 

Jan 9 – “Wretched cold. Osteopathic treatment this morning. Wonderful ride at sunset thro’ the Park. Flonzahy Concert 
but didn’t go. Mrs M. Dorothy, Una Martin and Mr M., Thekla using ticket.” 

 

Jan 10 – “Quiet day not able to read yet, but some better.” 

 

Jan 11 – “Busy day preparing for dinner-guests the Boards, Windsors[?] and Prentices, a lovely evening!” 

 

Jan 12 – “Sunday – very cold. Boards left early. Quiet day. Read ‘The Hound of Heaven’, which seemed so wonderful 
at last to end our day.” 

 

Jan 13 – “Warmer. Dress-maker & treatment this morning. Munder here for luncheon. Did errands this afternoon and 
brought Jessie up to her home.” 

 

Jan 14 – “Down town this morning buying black velvet dress etc. Ida out for tea this afternoon. Finished Helen 
Dewhurst’s afghan this evening.” 

 

Jan 15 – “Scandavian[sic] pictures at Gallery this morning! Saw ‘Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm’ with Isabelle and 
Dorothy this afternoon – then stopped at Mrs. Prentice’s tea on way home.” 

 

Jan 16 – “Cloudy day – home morning. New York Symphony Orchestra concert – Wagner Program – this afternoon. 
Mrs Larkin’s this evening to hear an address – ‘Paul at Athens’ before Arch. Society.” 

 

Jan 17 – “Treatment this morning and fitting at Miss Sellien’s. Called on Mrs Clifton this afternoon – dined at Munder’s 
– saw Basket Ball at Sem. Mr M. gone to visit Darwin over Sunday.” 

 

Jan 18 – “Sunday – lovely morning with victrola, the ‘Lesson’ and walk to our pines in the Park. Mrs Parmelee and 
Fosters here for dinner.” 

 

Jan 19 – “[This should be transposed with the 18th!] Scandanavian pictures again and with Munder and Mary. Home rest 
of day. Read Laurence Binyon. Coat came but returned it for alterations.” 

 

Jan 20 – “Shopped a lot with Dorothy. 

Made error for whole week! --. see the 26th.” 

 

Jan 21 – “Home most of day. Called on Thekla this evening during the wedding rehearsal.” 

 

Jan 22 – “Pouring rain. Genevieve Board married at four. Felt too wretched to go despite the attractiveness of my chum-
child[?] as bridesmaid!” 

 

Jan 23 – “Home this morning reading Mr Lord’s paper on Eucken. Isabelle heard Pres. Richmond’s lecture this 
afternoon. I visited down town meanwhile. Gave up Mrs Goodyear’s musicale for evening au famille.” 

 

Jan 24 – “Down town this morning – market – Tripi’s etc. Jessie and Agnes out for tea. Mrs Albright came in the midst 
of it bringing us letter of introduction to Mr Freer!” 


 

Jan 25 – “Sunday – much laryngitis and had treatment while family were at church. Ida troubled over Anna. Detroit looks 
doubtful for Isabelle and me at present.” 

 

Jan 26 – “October weather! Voice better than yesterday but do not feel well just the same. Shopped with Dorothy this 
afternoon and had fitting on spring suit.” 

 

Jan 27 blank 

 

Jan 28 –“Down with Dorothy again planning shirt waists, etc.” 

 

Jan 29 – “Wonderful day but alas not in Detroit!! Spent it quietly at home - Mrs Dayton consuming most of the latter end 
of it.” 

 

Jan 30 – “Spent morning preparing for the open meeting of the P.S. Club here. Mrs. Prentiss gave entire program.” 

 

Jan 31 – “Quiet day in my room until time to meet Isabelle at 20th Cent. Club and go to Anti-Suffrage Meeting addressed 
by Mrs Kilinamis [?] –( Gayard[?] Taylor’s daughter)” 

 

February 1 – “Heard Dr Rudolph Eucken lecture this afternoon, then went to tea given by Mrs Letchworth. The Bartons 
here for dinner. Pedro later. Detroit postponed until Mr Freer returns from South.” 

 

Feb 2 – “Our first big storm this winter. Didn’t go to church. Miss Frink and children called this afternoon.” 

 

Feb 3 – “Errands all the morning – slept all the afternoon. Read all of Sudermann’s ‘Magda’ to Isabelle this evening.” 

 

Feb 4 – “Mrs Simpson gave very fine paper at Club this morning. Munder guest for nearly all day. Mr Martin went to 
Church Meeting alone this evening.” 

 

Feb 5 – “Five above zero! Down town selected paper for sitting room. Mrs Morey with us – for luncheon also. Late in 
afternoon called at Mrs Barcalo’s with Isabelle - tea – victrola etc.” 

 

Feb 6 – “Very cold. Home this morning – both open fires going – home full of daffodils and sunshine – lovely!” 

 

Feb 7 – “Went down to see Detroit Electric this morning. Called upon Mrs Dold and Mrs Parker this afternoon.” 

 

Feb 8 “Mrs Hauenstein Here this afternoon – read her poems, gave us volumes of them and related her experiences most 
generously. Munder, May, Mrs Morey, Mrs Merrill and Mrs Spear here.” 

 

Feb 9 – “Lovely day and I got up and went to early service. Walked with Isabelle at noon. Bartons dined here. Isabelle 
and I attempted Choral Service at First Church.” 

 

Feb 10 – “Took Ida for errands and brought her home for luncheon. Got Isabelle after Class and we called upon Mrs. 
Albright, Mrs. Barrel, and I upon Sarah and Mrs Gilbert.” 

 

Feb 11 – “Treatment this morning. Luncheon at Mame’s. Brought Bertha out with us for tea and a Smith séance with 
Isabelle.” 

 

Feb 12 – “Very cold. Shopped all the morning. Spent afternoon settling sitting-room which is lovely with its new paper 
and foreign photos. Church night and I’m alone before fire writing etc.” 


 

Feb 13 – “Dress-maker appointment. Luncheon with Isabelle at Munder’s. Heard Dr Talcott Williams speak on The 
Changing Stage.” 

 

Feb 14 – “Valentine of nighties smothered in sweet peas, orchids and maiden hair. Luncheon with Clara Allen – 
interesting time talking Florence! Heard Mrs Glenny speak on ‘Vocational Guidance’ this evening.” 

 

Feb 15 – “Home morning – early luncheon and did our errands before we went to Chromatic Club where Cleveland 
women gave charming program. Bartons here for evening of ‘Pedro.’” 

 

Feb 16 – “Sunday – early service. Quiet day.” 

 

Feb 17 – “Isabelle in bed all day, practically, with headache. Mr Martin not home for dinner to-night so we’ve had a cosy 
evening in the South Room.” 

 

Feb 18 – “Club morning. Tennyson & Lanier, latter paper by May Staples. Mrs Morey here for luncheon. Home this 
evening, though election of Readers took place and Elena Gerhardt Recital.” 

 

Feb 19 – “Mrs Prentiss here for luncheon and rest of day until six o’clock singing.” 

 

Feb 20 – “Wonderful day – 52 degrees temp. Errands this morning, luncheon at Munders, a long call upon Ida later. 
Fosters here an hour or more this evening. Detroit Electric ordered!” 

 

Feb 21 – “Home morning. Read ‘Uncle Vanya’, one of a volume of dramas by Tchekoff[sic]. Bartons here for dinner. 
Addressed envelopes this evening for ‘Neighborhood Tea’.” 

 

Feb 22 – “Pouring rain! No vestige of snow. Mrs Van Hoesen here, a busy day.” 

 

Feb 23 – “Sunday – a blizzard early this morning so stayed at home. Mary, Esther, and Genevieve Goodrich here for 
dinner. Supper at Thekla’s.” 

 

Feb 24 – “Lovely home morning. Margaret C. with me this afternoon singing, etc. Munder and Ida came in from Class 
for tea.” 

 

Feb 25 – “Treatment this morning. Went out to Pierce Factory with Mr Trautman to decide color etc for car. Church this 
evening to elect First Reader. Left there at nine and heard Culp and Clement 

Concert then returned to church.” 

 

Feb 26 – “Isabelle and I both wretched with influenza.” 

 

Feb 27 – “Home all day – not feeling able to go to-night with Isabelle and Mr Martin to Mrs Prentice’s.” 

 

Feb 28 – “Influenza still with me. Got Isabelle’s tea invitations out – made her chiffon scarf. Called on Mrs Wilkes, 
Mary Clark, and did errands.” 

 

March 1 – “Mrs Hubbell’s guests at Twentieth Century Club to meet Miss Fisk of Bennett School. Chromatic Club later 
lovely! Ball-Gould Trio, Mrs Prentice and Thekla. Tea at Allied Arts. Evening Pedro with Bartons.” 

 

March 2 – “Very cold wintry day. Isabelle and I did not go to church – roads almost impassable from drifts.” 

 


Mar 3 – “Weather conditions slightly bettered. Had Miss Fisk Out for tea – a lovely afternoon. Mrs. Morey and Benedict 
here for dinner.” 

 

Mar 4 – “Finished ‘The Journey of Jesus’ and greatly enjoyed Mrs Goodyear’s visit with us this afternoon.” 

 

Mar 5 – “Munder came out and spent afternoon to talk Bennett School. Clara Allen and Miss Mann called. We are 
reading Sakuntala.” 

 

Mar 6 – “Roads rough and we remained at home until evening when we went to Mrs Goodyear’s for a musical given by 
Mrs Barrell and Mrs Hillman. – lovely!” 

 

Mar 7 – “Zero weather. Home lovely with narcissus, daffodils and streptacolour[?]. Received between 40 and 50 
neighbors at tea.” 

 

Mar 8 – “Down town and Dr R’s – where I received a dismissal to every two or three weeks. Tea at Miss May Martins. 
Bartons here for dinner and Pedro.” 

 

Mar 9 – “A soft day and welcome change after zero weather. Early service. No one here all day. Read Rann Kennedy’s 
last drama ‘The Necessary Evil’.” 

 

Mar 10 – “Out all day – “ 

Mar 11 – “Morning out delivering plants, etc. Dress-makers this afternoon. Read ‘The Faith Healer’ this evening.” 

 

Mar 12 – “Shampoo and shopping this morning for myself. Calls this afternoon on Bernice, Mary Clark, etc. Evening 
with Dorothy who is passing thro a phase of ‘imagining.’” 

 

Mar 13 – “Wrote letters all the morning. Mrs Barton and Mrs Morey here for luncheon. Tea at Mrs Estey’s – a charming 
hostess in a charming house! Bonci & Rhadeska concert this evening. Milo Benedict accompanying his wife.” 

 

Mar 14 – “Maximum temperature to-day 71. The Simpsons here for dinner and Mrs. S. read ‘The Necessary Evil’. 
Terrible electric storm late this evening.” 

 

Mar 15 – “Cooler. Home morning. Thekla here for luncheon and I went home with her for dinner.” 

 

Mar 16 – “Early church. Read ‘The Next Religion’ to Isabelle. Fosters all out for supper.” 

 

Mar 17 – “Attended luncheon given at Iroquois for Mrs Catt and heard speak on Suffrage. Heard later charming recital 
given by David Mannes and his wife.” 

 

Mar 18 – “Day given over to millinery openings, tailors, etc. Had dinner at Ida’s.” 

 

Mar 19 – “Down town and Dr Russell’s this morning.” 

 

Mar 20 – “Dentist’s and dress-maker’s this morning. Too tired to-night to go to hear Godowsky.” 

 

Mar 21 – “Good Friday. Attended part of three hour service at Trinity with Isabelle. Lorna Doons evening.” 

 

Mar 22 – “Busy morning with plants for Easter and preparing for the Salters whom I brought out about four to spend a 
few days with us. Surprised to find Mrs S. once a member of Mr Waith’s[?] choir” 

 


Mar 23 – “So I took her to service this Easter Morning at First Church. Heard Mr S’s recital this afternoon at Convention 
Hall. The Prentiss’s here for supper and we had a wonderful musical evening.” 

 

Mar 24 – “Took Salters to see Reid, Twachturam[?] and Chinese exhibits at Gallery this morning. Rested this afternoon 
for this evening’s entertaining – Waith[?] Holmes Prentisses and Thekla. [ ] disaster!” 

 

Mar 25 – “Salters left at 10:35 this morning. Isabelle took to her bed at noon and remained rest of day. Another 
unsuccessful Church meeting this evening. Tina[?] [L ] recital.” 

 

Mar 26 – “Home recovering straightening out. Tea at Munder’s meeting Telly Meisaur[?] and her sister – ‘Bud Sears’ 
and Miss James. Brought Miss Crawford home for dinner and the night.” 

 

Mar 27 – “Miss Crawford shopped with us this morning and we left her at her Mother’s for luncheon. Rested all 
afternoon. Lorna Doons evening.” 

 

Mar 28 – “Luncheon for Dorothy - twenty-two present, all representing books. Went later to milliner’s and dressmakers.” 

 

Mar 29 – “Market etc this morning. Called with Isabelle this afternoon upon Mrs Merrill and Mrs Deming. Home 
evening.” 

 

Mar 30 – “Sunday, early service. Rest of day given to planning another summer in England. Larkin boy ill so Darwin did 
not return this evening.” 

 

Mar 31 – “Errands – steamers – etc. Served tea to Betty, Margaret, and two of their Vassar friends this afternoon. Went 
to station with Darwin this evening. Junior Spread discovered by Senior but ‘kept all our eats[?]’.” 

 

April 1 – “Called on Goodrich girls and discussed plans for Bernice.” 

 

April 2 – “Spent morning on English pictures while Isabelle cleaned house. Down town this afternoon with Mrs Morey 
and Isabelle.” 

 

Apr 3 –“Dr R’s this morning and quite done for the rest of day.” 

 

Apr 4 – “Day devoted to Schools! Saw at Franklin this morning the Dalcroze method illustrated. Junior Play at ‘Sem’ 
this afternoon. Mr Martin has gone to Chicago this evening.” 

 

Apr 5 – “Went to Ida’s and saw Miss Brook at Chrom. Club this afternoon with Mrs Russell give demonstration of 
Dalcroze method. Miss Sackett here for dinner. Engaged our staterooms.” 

 

Apr 6 – “Sunday - trolley strike - no church for me. Bartons and Mr Burdett here for dinner.” 

 

Apr 7 – “Home day. Strike assuming large proportions. Dinner at Mrs Stevens for Miss McConnell.” 

 

Apr 8 – “Dr Russell’s this morning. Call at the Halls before going to Mrs Guthries for dinner.” 

 

Apr 9 – “A lovely birthday day! Munder here for luncheon. Electric car came out about four and Dorothy took us for a 
ride. ‘Party’ at night – just ourselves and pedro evening.” 

 

Apr 10 – “Militia out 2300. Dinner at Mame’s and she and Bertha helped a lot on my itinerary.” 

 


Apr 11 – “Bad head and went to bed this afternoon for rest of day.” 

 

Apr 12 – “Better and got up at noon. Mrs Van H. came at 4.00 and consumed remainder of day.” 

 

Apr 13 –“Sunday. Dined at Ida’s with Mr Lord, the Bradfords, and Miss Almsted[?] . Dorothy and Isabelle came for me 
& we called at Thekla’s. Munder and Mr Foster came out this evening.” 

 

Apr 14 – “Errands this morning. Had eyes examined. Drove down for D. this afternoon and went to Dr R’s. Went to 
Miss Almsted[?]’s this evening for Mr Lord’s Reading with Ida and Isabelle.” 

 

Apr 15 – “Last call on dress-making this morning. Home rest of day reading.” 

 

Apr 16 – “Beautiful day and Isabelle and I had a lovely walk in the Park. Miss Angell here for luncheon.” 

 

Apr 17 – “Took D. to Warren & Ruttiman for her dress which is darling! after spending afternoon at Katherine Ogden’s 
reading ‘The Necessary Evil’.” 

Apr 18 – “Steamer investigations again in order that Dorothy may be in the Play June 3rd if possible. Franklin School 
dance this evening very delightful. Bertha’s birthday.” 

 

Apr 19 – “Isabelle had Bernice examined this A.M. with not encouraging results. Drove Detroit this afternoon for 
errands. Read Highways & Byways of W. Wales this evening.” 

 

Apr 20 – “Early service. Home with Ida for dinner. Saw Besnard Collection at Gallery where we met Isabelle & Mrs. 
Morey. Heard part of Ysaye[?] recital this evening.” 

 

Apr 21 – “Home this morning busy with flowers. Dentist’s this afternoon. Went with Isabelle to Church Meeting – 7th 
and ‘no election’.” 

 

Apr 22 – “Home morning. Dress-maker this afternoon. Read ‘Gallant Little Wales’ this evening.” 

 

Apr 23 – “Dentist. Mary to dinner with D. and they took us down to see Thekla who is ill.” 

 

Apr 24 – “Temperature 80 to-day. Down town this A.M. Made four calls this afternoon.” 

 

Apr 25 – “Excessively hot day. Finished dentistry this afternoon. Evening alone with Dorothy – cards – lemonade etc” 

 

Apr 26 – “Much colder! I. & D. in Rochester all day & I had Jessie out for luncheon and afternoon. Late dinner - pedro.” 

 

Apr 27 – “Stiff neck and a wretched Sunday. Read ‘Daffodil Fields’ this evening which is a-plenty of Masefield for me.” 

 

Apr 28 – “Morning at home and called with Isabelle this afternoon upon Mrs Goodyear and Mrs Dann.” 

 

Apr 29 – “Busy morning getting ready to go home. Luncheon at Ida’s with Isabelle, called later.” 

 

Apr 30 – Morning in the garden – the season three weeks in advance of most Buffalo springs. Luncheon at Mrs Morey’s 
after which we went to Williamsville and Clarence Center for trilliums etc.” 

 

May 1 – “Decorated all the morning for our dinner to-night – Parkers, Wills, and Ida guests. Lunched with Munder and 
called after it.” 

 


May 2 – “Home morning. Luncheon at Mrs Bailey’s followed by neighborhood calls. This Reidpaths returned this 
evening.” 

 

May 3 – “Dr Russell’s this morning. Called on Mrs McLeod this afternoon in Bernice’s interest and also upon Bertha. 
Very hot day. Northrops here this evening.” 

 

May 4 – “Church this morning – and rest of day was a quiet veranda one with Benedict here for supper.” 

 

May 5 – “Larkins this morning. Mr Johnston here for luncheon bringing the loveliest poem – ‘The Daffodils’ which he 
had written for Isabelle.” 

 

May 6 – “Busy packing. Nice call from Munder at five. Left for Hartford at 9.45 – my second winter over most happily.” 

 

May 7 – “Two hours late. An opportunity to see the country which never looked so heavenly lovely as it does this spring. 
Arrived home about noon.” 

 

May 8 – “Down town with H. shopping for her. Prayer-meeting this evening. And oh, a wonderful drive in Kensy Park 
this afternoon with C. Such dogwood I never saw, nor such rhodora[sic]” 

 

May 9 – “Letters galore written about our plans for Lexington etc. Hair shampooed this afternoon. Cards this evening.” 

 

May 10 – “Went down to Westville at 2.58, was met by Anna and am spending night with her.” 

 

May 11 – “Sunday. Mother’s Day. Came home at eleven and went to see Dr Case. Rest of day wrote letters and rested.” 

 

May 12 – “Went to C. Falls at 9.40. Called on Aunt Sarah who is enjoying her 82nd birthday. Found Nell in poor shape. 
Lunched at Miss Mary’s, came home at 5.22.” 

 

May 13 – “Attended Missionary Meeting at Mrs Hunt’s – read Mrs Woolley’s[?] paper.” 

 

May 14 – “Left for Lexington with Hattie at eleven – got off at Back[?] Bay to see ‘Cubist’ Exhibition and to call on 
Edith Russell. Home at six – called after dinner upon Miss Bacheller and Mrs Goodwin.” 

 

May 15 – “Nearly all day at Miss Thornton’s. At five went to Emily Martins where I found Laura Dunklee[?] was soon to 
arrive so stayed for supper. Called at Miss B’s on way home. Visit from Mrs Wilkins.” 

 

May 16 – “Three hours with Miss Clarabel this morning. Nap after luncheon. Walked to Mr Woods for flowers which I 
sent to Miss B. and carried to Mrs Thornton. Hattie & Miss Whitaker dined with me.” 

 

May 17 – “A few calls this morning and left Lex. on 11.30 trolley for 19 Ware St. Cambridge where I had luncheon with 
Mrs Folsom and Anna. Home on ‘Twilight Express’.” 

 

May 18 – “Full day at home. Lyon here until evening. Mr Marshall arrived from St. G. to take horse up to-morrow.” 

 

May 19 – “Busy day getting everything ready for Vermont trip up in freight car – luncheon, errands for European trip etc” 

 

May 20 – “Charles left to-day for night ‘in High Street’ then for St. G. where he meets Harrie from Boston. Reading 
many interesting things on trip. K. L. Bates From Gretna[?] Green to Land’s End.” 

 


May 21 – “Sewing going on more easily than last year leaving plenty of time for reading – to-day Alice Brown’s ‘By Oak 
& Thorn’.” 

 

May 22 – “Frederic all in with a cold and kept him at home to-day – play much Canfield etc” 

 

May 23 – “Rain and humidity continues. Frederic better and gone to C. Falls for over Sunday.” 

 

May 24 – “Rain. Worked over house all the morning preparatory to entertaining ‘Peter Miles’[?] over Sunday, who 
stayed at the Willards!” 

 

May 25 – “Sunday. Alone practically all day and spent time on Mrs Stowells Motor trips in Wales. Nice call from Paul 
Herrick who told me about seeing Herrick ancestral home at Inorn[?] Eng.” 

 

May 26 – “Ames came down this afternoon and stayed to dinner and spent evening. H. & C. returned from Vt. at 7.30.” 

 

May 27 – “At home all day finishing up odd jobs. Rec’d lovely photo of Dorothy also of Barbara Herrick. Massage this 
evening.” 

 

May 28 – “Rain – rain. Down town twice for glasses.” 

 

May 29 – “Left Hartford 12.37 and arrived at Peekskill about six. Ruth, the baby, and Bertha met me at the station.” 

 

May 30 – “Memorial Day procession in which Douglas rode. Afternoon down on tennis courts with Ruth & baby.” 

 

May 31 – “Lovely veranda weather at last. Miss Jenny & Percy so much[?] who are trolleying to Boston!” 

 

June 1 – “Sunday, at home all day. Mr Front made two hour call on us this morning.” 

 

Jun 2 – “Busy morning. Calls from Helen & Emma - packed for England again. Bertha went with me to West Point 
where I met the Martins coming down from Phoenicia. Spent night on boat.” 

 

Jun 3 – “Sailed on ‘Kronprinz Wilhelm’ with Isabelle & Dorothy. The Fosters with Mr Martin saw us off. Ship much 
steadier than ‘Kaiser W. II’ and expect to enjoy passage.” 

 

Jun 4 – “Lovely day – sunny and calm. Run only 494 miles losing time from 10 hrs ‘reduced speed’ during night because 
of fog.” 

 

Jun 5 – “In the trough of the waves and hot but up and out all day just the same. Run 524 miles.” 

 

Jun 6 – “Rain – wretched day so warm and humid until night. Run 513 miles. Just at sunset a sudden change to north – 
and a gale set in for all night evidently.” 

 

Jun 7 – “Ten hour gale kept us awake all night so slept this morning. Run 538 miles. Calm seas by noon – fresh northerly 
wind – out all afternoon with Dorothy on sun deck.” 

 

Jun 8 – “Sunday – and Plymouth begins to look near as our last little flag is out. Run 513 miles.” 

 

Jun 9 – “Wretched rolling sea all night. Landed at noon – 1:30 before we reached Grand Hotel on The Hoe. Rested. 
Went down town with Isabelle for errands – engaged motor. etc.” 

 


Jun 10 – “Rain, but we started at 11 for Totnes. Lunched at Seven Stars. Saw Brutus Stone, Guildhall, Church etc. 
Returned via Dean Prior, seeing Robert Herrick tablet, also via Plympton seeing Joshua Reynolds tablet.” 

 

Jun 11 – “Devoted to-day to seeing Plymouth, re-packing of trunks and did final arrangement for our 5 week motor trip 
thro Cornwall, Devon, Warwickshire & Wales. Weather cold, highest temperature 59.” 

 

Jun 12 – “Left P. at 10.30. Cornwall wonderfully rolling, beautiful country! ‘Lanes’ of foxglove & valerian. Lunched at 
Fowney Hotel – where we looked down into ‘I’s’ garden. Are at Truro for night midst old silver & mahogany.” 

 

Jun 13 – “Visited the modern Cathedral before leaving Truro. On way to Penzance visited the ruins at Redruth. Arrived at 
P. at 1 o’clock. At four ran out to Land’s End. Evening by fire (yellow iris) listening to music outside & reading.” 

 

Jun 14 – “Visited studio at Newlyn this morning before starting for Marazion (old Jewish colony in time of Phoenicians) 
the place for rowing over to Mt. St. M. Lunched at Tregenna Castle. Mt. St. Ives and are to-night at Tintagel.” 

 

Jun 15 – “The most marvelous sunset last night ever saw – Isabelle & I watching glow until ten! Quiet Sunday – writing 
letters etc. luncheon of Lobster at Boscastle. Dined there also coming home via Camelford.” 

 

Jun 16 – “Ill turn this morning & remained in bed until eleven. Left at twelve lunching at The Grenville in Bude – near & 
fine hotel. Reached [ ] about four. Children’s Day & much singing.” 

 

Jun 17 – “Cloudy Day! Sailed this morning with ‘Lyman Abbott’. Took Hobby Drive this afternoon – too foggy for 
views. Tea in garden near library. Evening cool and read ‘Ship of Stars’ expecting house to tumble down.” 

 

Jun 18 – “Left C. at 11.30. Lunched at Ridsford & saw town. – had forgotten Armada Guns[?]. Came directly to Lynton 
arriving about four. Tea with Isabelle at Greenhouse Rooms & found E.J.J’s silversmith – Blackford.” 

 

Jun 19 – “Landan[?] & pair up to Malmsmead Farm where we had to walk up Doons Valley. Wonderful day for trip. 
Drove back thro’ Oars[?], visiting church. Tea in Lynmouth. Back by Cliff Railway.” 

 

Jun 20 – “Run to Bath 88 miles. Luncheon at Bridgwater stopping at Nether Stowey to see where ‘Ancient Mariner’ was 
written. In afternoon visited Glastonbury and Wells - both far lovelier than my memory of them.” 

 

Jun 21 – “Pulteney[?] Hotel very comfortable and quiet. Shopped some this morning. In bed all afternoon – concert at 
Sidney Gardens this evening.” 

 

Jun 22 – “Sunday. Went to Wells for service this morning. This afternoon attended C. S. service at Assembly Rooms and 
were delightfully received by our country-woman Lady Menendez[?]. Wrote rest of day & drove.” 

 

Jun 23 – “Shampoos this morning and did the streets of Bath – visiting Roman baths – Pump Room, etc.” 

 

Jun 24 – “Left Bath about 11. Luncheon at Gloucester. Saw cathedral & had part of Evensong there. Came thro’ 
Tewesbury & saw Abbey. Arrived at Lygon Hotel, Broadway, a large English edition of Russell House, Lexington.” 

 

Jun 25 – “Walked entire length of the street this morning admiring the very quaint homes and ending with Mary 
Anderson’s villa. Left Broadway for Stratford about four putting up at Shakespeare Hotel – rooms A Winter’s Tale & 
Comedy.” 

 

Jun 26 – “Did the regular Stratford sight-seeing to-day ending with Evensong at Holy Trinity. Had drawing-room entirely 
to ourselves this evening for reading. There was never more beautiful river than the Avon.” 


 

Jun 27 – “Lovely ride on the Avon in a punt this morning before leaving Stratford. Settled ourselves at Leamington at 
noon and glad are we of its comforts! Took D. to Kenilworth about four. Evening reading – cards etc.” 

. 

Jun 28 – “I. R. M with us this morning. A lovely afternoon at Rugby, shown around by a lad from Toronto. Beautiful 
Burne Jones window in the Chapel.” 

 

Jun 29 – “Drove to Birmingham via Coventry and returned via Warwick. Heard part of service at St. Michael’s in C. 
Lunched in R. & spent afternoon with the wonderful Burne Jones tapestries & paintings.” 

 

Jun 30 – “Morning at Warwick returning via Guy’s Cliff & Kenilworth. Saw Dr Hicks with Isabelle at two and we drove 
to Coventry again seeing Lady Godiva’s statue.” 

 

July 1 – “Started north, lunching at Nuneaton. Visited Beau Manor Park and were served tea!!!! Spent night at 
Nottingham. Beau Manor is between Inorn[?] and Woodhouse.” 

 

July 2 – “Left out a day – Beau Manor experience was to-day! (Recorded on preceding day)” 

 

July 3 – “The next two records should be pushed back one day.” 

 

July 4 – “Wretched noisy night made us glad to get out of N. Reached Mansfield at noon and started after lunch for The 
Dakeries[?] drive. Byron’s place closed – everything disappointing but Sherwood Forest (old).” 

 

July 5 – “Left Mansfield about 11 and lunched at Matlock. Then drove to Haddon Hall which is the loveliest of all lovely 
places. Tea at Bakewell. Drive to Buxton is perfectly beautiful. Old Hall Hotel delightful.” 

 

July 6 – “Rainy cold Sunday. Chester. In all day. A wonderful day’s run yesterday across Derbyshire Peaks in the mist, 
stopping at Knutsford for tea at the Angel.” 

 

July 7 – “House this morning after an unsuccessful attempt at shopping. A very happy afternoon at Llangollen visiting 
Plas Newydd which [has] a Druid Circle on the front lawn.” 

 

July 8 – “Left Chester this morning – lunched at Rhyl. Went on to Llandudno and settled at ‘Imperial’ – very fine. Took 
Marine Drive around Great Arms about five. Perfectly beautiful.” 

 

July 9 – “Rain. Heard part of concert with D. in Happy Valley. Clearing at noon started us off for Conway visiting Castle 
of Iuay[?] etc. and six o’clock found us settled at the Waterloo in Bettws y eseil[?]” 

 

July 10 – “Lovely ride thro Llanberis Pass to fort of Snowdon where we stopped and asked fearpirt[?] to play. Thus on to 
Carnarvon – crossed Menai to ‘Llanfair P. G” – on to Bangor – thro Nant Ffrancon Pass back to Bettws.” 

 

July 11 – “Beautiful experiences at Beddgelert! Lunched at Mrs. Howells. Came thro Aberglaslyn Pass thro Vale of 
Maentwrog up to Bluewan Ffestiniog home. Started Brown off for Plymouth to-night.” 

 

July 12 – “No driving to-day which is a relief. This afternoon walked to old church across river by the stepping stones. 
(Sad sides of life in little cottage beyond!) back to Hotel. Read a lot in Aylwin.” 

 

July 13 – “Sunday. Read this morning. Started with horse at 1.30 visiting Conwy Falls where we saw Ceiulys[?] Thomas 
– a darling baby, and Fairy Glen. Wonderful sky reflection in pool! Welsh services at six.” 

 


July 14 – “Lovely day. Visited Jack Jones on our way to Swallow Falls – Lake Aywn[?] etc. 

 

July 15 – “Did Llanberis Pass a second time – this time by carriage. Lunched at Llanberis. Had pleasant talk with our 
landlady Mrs McCulloch. 

 

July 16 – “House day. Discovered the Manns at luncheon and we had luncheon and drives with them.” 

 

July 17 – “Our longest run – thro Beddgelert to Barmouth – back thro Dollgelly. Bala Cerrig y Drudion, about 20 miles.” 

 

July 18 – “With million regrets we left dear Bettws at 2.20 and arrived at Chester about 5.” 

 

July 19 – “Were to have gone to Edinboro to-day but I had too much influenza, so have been in bed nearly all day.” 

 

July 20 – “In all day until about three when we took a short drive. In spite of the sun it was wretchedly cold. Chester is 
no place for a week-end stop, it is so noisy.” 

 

July 21 – “Left Chester at 11.45 and came via Crews to Edinburgh where we arrived at six. Are comfortably located at 
Mrs Ayton’s 12 Grosvenor Street. Found Cedric tickets here!” 

 

July 22 – “Beautiful skies for our background in this our first day in the grey city. Took Queen’s Drive and saw Grey 
friars – the noted monuments etc.” 

 

July 23 – “Drove to Castle this morning – no parade, soldiers in Camp. Saw old Edinburgh. John Knox’s house etc.” 

 

July 24 – “Still feeling wretched – so spent morning on the bed and bought steamer-rugs with Isabelle later in day. A very 
pleasant evening with our companions in our common parlor.” 

 

July 25 – “’Drab’ weather and I did not go to Melrose with Isabelle. Of course it turned warm and pleasant later! 
However I did much shopping.” 

 

July 26 – “Finished shopping this morning and had our heads shampooed this afternoon in the tiniest little shop. Should 
have seen city by night according to Stevenson – but difficult to get cab & we tired.” 

 

July 27 – “Drove to Firth of Forth bridge this morning. Saw man playing hymns on a series of revolving pipes he had 
invented. Attended suffragist meeting on The Meadow this afternoon. Cathedral service 7.” 

 

July 28 – “Left Trossachs[?] Hotel by coach and spent day at Stronachlacker[?] Hotel (30th)” 

 

July 29 – “Left on early boat – cloudy, but no rain, very cold. Arrived Glasgow at noon – Windsor Hotel. Shopped 
unsuccessfully this afternoon. (Should be July 31st)” 

 

July 30 blank 

July 31 blank 

 

August 1 – “Glad to shake Glasgow dust from our feet. Reached Ayr about six and could find no accommodation. Dined 
at ‘Green Lodge’. Drove to Burns home & left for Kilmarnoch at 9.30 for night.” 

 

Aug 2 – “Left Kilmarnock at 9.56 and via Harwich where we had lunch reached Ambleside at four. Mr B. sent in card in 
few minutes telling of Gras. Rush. bearing[?], & with Mr N. taking Norah also, we saw it!” 

 


Aug 3 – “Started at 10.30 for Langdales! Heard sermon on Romans 14. Lovely day – most perfect sky seen at all in 
English Lakes. Mrs Chapman so glad to see us.” 

 

Aug 4 – “Restful morning running about in the little shops near. Left at four with Mr Williams for Borrowdale, having 
both tea and nice duck dinner at Thirlspot. Pleasant call at Hazel Bank.” 

 

Aug 5 – “Errands and struggles with luggage this morning. Took Jame Hows [?]drive! Had dinner at Comiton[?] – drive 
home not comfortable because it was too dark.” 

 

Aug 6 – “Started at ten o’clock for Buttermere Round, arriving at Nart Water[?] seven – a run of 102 miles. Spending 
night at Allouby Hotel – Strand.” 

 

Aug 7 – “Left Strand at 10.30 coming via Cockermouth to Bassenthwaite where we had luncheon. Tea at Thirlspot, home 
at six. Read ‘Six Trees’ this evening. Wonderful weather continues.” 

 

Aug 8 – “House morning – photos taken by Mr B. Isabelle and I took Red Banks[?] drive and went to service at 
Grasmere which we had entirely alone for more than half! Wonderful afternoon for us.” 

 

Aug 9 – “Took Wray Castle drive this afternoon – stopping at Ferry Hotel on Windermere for tea. Hotel charming in its 
violet and green decoration!” 

 

August10 – “Sunday. Took pair this afternoon and drove around Little Langdale to Mrs C’s for a chicken dinner at 6. 
Blea Tarn a wonder! Dorothy picnicked with Banks children at Farn Hown[?].” 

 

Aug 11 – “Called at Fox How this afternoon. Miss Arnold show great appreciation of Stockbridge portals. Later had tea 
with Mrs Hird – quite a society afternoon!” 

 

Aug 12 – “Wretched day with tonsillitis and a busy one packing for the steamer.” 

 

Aug 13 – “Mr Williams took us down to Winderman and saw us off with fatherly solicitude. Mr B. gave us lovely flowers 
– yellow roses & red sweet peas. Hard trip for me tho’ throat much better. Adelphi quarters more restful.” 

 

Aug 14 – “A few errands this morning with a quiet leave taking at 5 on the ‘Cedric’ in a fine wet ‘mist.’ Found a good 
deal of mail aboard which was pleasant as Isabelle is all in with a headache.” 

 

Aug 15 – “We do not enjoy Cedric vibrations – none of us had a good night. It has been a lovely bright day. Anchored at 
I. at 9.00 for hour or more. Isabelle wretched with headache still. Run counted from I.” 

 

Aug 16 – “We are simply pitching our way over to America! Run 411 miles.” 

 

Aug 17 – “Sunday. Service at 10.30 in the dining saloon very impressive indeed. Met Mr & Mrs Dorsey of Missouri and 
Mr and Miss Fisher of New York – the latter Dorothy enjoys. Run 406” 

 

Aug 18 – “Most perfect day I have ever known at sea. Isabelle and I spent morning watching sports. Log 414.” 

 

Aug 19 – “Frightfully humid day – great suffering. Stoker died at his post and is buried to-night. Run 393.” 

 

Aug 20 – “Dorothy very happy and well. Cooler to-day. Run 383.” 

 


Aug 21 – “Wonderfully blue day with north wind which makes a rolling sea but dispels all fog. Isabelle sat for a long time 
out in the bow after luncheon with us and we chose ‘our hymns’. Run 413. Dorothy play tennis tournament.” 

 

Aug 22 – “Our last day at sea grew hotter every minute. Docked at 5.20 and were met by Mr Martin. I got thro’ Customs 
very easily and caught 6.35 train for Peekskill. Met by D. & R.” 

 

Aug 23 – “Bertha off on motor trip to Newport[?]. Re. adjusted trunks and rested a lot as I haven’t my ‘land legs’. Calls 
this evening from Helen and the Prestons.” 

 

Aug 24 – “Went early to Dr Knights for a blood test and spent day with Jenny, Douglas and Ruth joining us for supper.” 

 

Aug 25 – “Quiet day – very hot.” 

 

Aug 26 – “Busy day preparing for Greensboro and resting as much as possible in between times.” 

 

Aug 27 – “Left Peekskill at 10.46. A very hot day. Arrived at Molly’s about seven – and found them alone without a 
maid. Nice calls from Eloise and May.” 

 

Aug 28 – “Calls received & paid this morning. Luncheon on roof at Van Ness[?] with Molly. Left at 4.50 for Greensboro. 
Found Howes Dorothy. Beau and Mrs. Dewhurst here. Charlie met me.” 

 

Aug 29 – “Greensboro as lovely as ever. Calls this morning. Unpacked and settled. Mrs Howes entertained this evening 
in honor of the birthdays and her parents anniversary.” 

 

Aug 30 – “Tom came while I was helping Mrs Howes and Mrs Ayer make bouquets which they are selling for the benefit 
of ‘library’ having motored from St. G.” 

 

Aug 31 – “Sunday. Call from Fred Whitings before dinner. Service at 5. Mrs Howes – led by Franklyn. Mrs Dewhurst 
here for supper. Howes spent evening with us.” 

 

September 1 – “Labor Day. Luncheon on the Links with Howes family. Later in the afternoon went to tea given on the 
Point by Constance for her Mother.” 

 

Sep 2 – “Hot! 84. Dance at the Ayers which I watched a short time. Lyon came from his camp to-night.” 

 

Sep 3 – “Another very warm day. Spent most of afternoon at Mrs Howes looking at her photos. Heavy shower. Herrick 
came and Tom left.” 

 

Sep 4 – “Cooler – very fine day. Walked to village with Frederic this afternoon and back.” 

 

Sep 5 – “Surveying Party down at the Snyder Camp the event of the day – the occasion being Franklyn’s and Winifred’s 
lot given by the Aunties. Sent Isabelle to-night box of ladies tresses.” 

 

Sep 6 – “Morning given to garden and vegetables. Beau and Dorothy spent afternoon with me on veranda – Mrs Howes 
came later to talk Margorie’s clothes. Mary Eliot here this evening.” 

 

Sep 7 – “C. in Gt. G. over Sunday. C’s service. Lovely evening with Dorothy.” 

 

Sep 8 – blank 

 


Sep 9 – “Dorothy, Beau and Mrs D. left to-day. Very windy and cold.” 

 

Sep 10 – “Had our neighbors – Miller, Hutchinson, Cate. Smith – in for tea with our camp ladies this afternoon. – the men 
stopping in from golf. First front last night. Howes garden ruined.” 

 

Sep 11 – “Received box of ‘Rocky Fords’ from Isabelle. Much interested in reading ‘A Montessori Mother’ by Dorothy 
Canfield Fisher.” 

 

Sep 12 – “Charlie & Christine gone to-day. Walked up to Mrs Miller’s with H. and called to-day. Division of household 
labor begins to-day.” 

 

Sep 13 – “Rained most of day. Got the dinner with Herrick – wrote lots of letters. Mrs Kimball’s birthday.” 

 

Sep 14 – “Bitterly cold all day and fairly sat on the fire to keep warm. Heavy frosts for two nights. Brig. drove Lyon and 
B. Sibley to St. G. to take night train.” 

 

Sep 15 – “Left this cold roost at 10.27 this morning – arriving at Hartford about 8. – a long day’s jaunt. A hot bath and 
warm bed are inviting indeed.” 

 

Sep 16 – “Hartford’s heat for once is most attractive! Down town this morning – called upon Mrs Wiley and Mrs Thayer 
this afternoon.” 

 

Sep 17 – “Hair shampooed this morning. Spent couple of hours with Mrs Kimball this afternoon.” 

 

Sep 18 – “Went to Chicopee Falls this afternoon stopping first for dinner in Springfield with Lester and Harriet. Ames 
came in for me bringing me out to Miss Mary’s about nine.” 

 

Sep 19 – “Spent most of day with Grace Lyon. Called late this afternoon on Aunt Sarah.” 

 

Sep 20 – “Spent morning with Nell and Miss Mary and I had rest of day at Ruby’s – an interesting Sunday though very 
humid and rainy.” 

 

Sep 21 – “Rain, so gave up Springfield shopping and came to Hartford at noon. Hattie and Herrick here from 
Greensboro.” 

 

Sep 22 – “Osteopathic treatment this A.M. and ordered coat at Pratts. Rested remainder of day.” 

 

Sep 23 blank 

Sep 24 blank 

Sep 25 blank 

Sep 26 blank 

 

Sep 27 – “Much interested in The Squirrel Cage!” 

 

Sep 28 – “Sunday - slept all day - neuritis somewhat improved.” 

 

Sep 29 – “Letter from Isabelle this A.M. set me busy with plans to start on our college trip.” 

 

Sep 30 blank 

 


October 1 – “Not well. Read ‘Four Feathers’ which inspired me to commit Kipling’s ‘Recessional’” 

 

Oct 2 – “Felt so badly had Dr Case come to the house to-day. Neuritis has stopped but indigestion continues.” 

 

Oct 3 – “Telegram that Mr Martin is ‘indisposed’ knocks out our college plans temporarily as Isabelle expected to leave 
to-night. Eyes examined by Dr Abrams & prescription changed.” 

 

Oct 4 – “Telegram that Mr Martin is better relieves my mind and we shall carry out our plans Monday. Glad to have two 
more days myself in which to recover!” 

 

Oct 5 – “Sunday – very warm. Sat out with C. & H. a long time after dinner on veranda.” 

 

Oct 6 blank 

Oct 7 blank 

Oct 8 blank 

Oct 9 blank 

 

Oct 10 – “Fearful heat and humidity but seventeen turned out to our Young Woman Meeting.” 

 

Oct 11 –“ Left Hartford to join Isabelle and the girls at ‘The [C tly] Pleasure’. James took latter to the game and they 
went to the theatre in the evening. I spent that time with Edith” 

 

Oct 12 – “Sunday. Church where we saw Edith. James at dinner with us. Girls left at 4.50 and Isabelle and I had a cosy 
evening making plans.” 

 

Oct 13 – “Breakfast in our rooms and a lazy day as everything closed for Columbus celebration. Came to Hotel Bellevue 
late in afternoon for rest of time.” 

 

Oct 14 – “Rain – snow – and everything that could happen as to weather! Shopped all day more or less and this evening 
read Intensive Living.” 

 

Oct 15 – “Left at 12.40 with Isabelle, visiting cottages along North Shore in pouring rain from Mrs Camp’s to the 
Sherburn at Marblehead.” 

 

Oct 16 – “Furious rain all day. Spent most of morning in Coug.[?] Book Store. Edith dined with us. Am reading ‘On the 
Branch’ to Isabelle.” 

 

Oct 17 – “Left Boston this A.M. and arrived at Stockbridge at four o’clock. Few people here but among them Mrs Butler 
and Mrs Evans. Sunny. Foliage a disappointment all the way.” 

 

Oct 18 – “Up early and at station to meet Mr Martin. Wrote this morning while they walked. Drove to Great Barrington 
this afternoon.” 

 

Oct 19 – “Sunday. Drove all the morning thro the Estates. Gray and rainy the rest of day.” 

 

Oct 20 – “Rain, but warm and we started in motor for Northampton. Luncheon at Westfield where Mr M. had business. 
Plymouth Inn for the night after a satisfactory at Smith.” 

 

Oct 21 – “Very cold and clear. Called at The Burnham while others went to Chapel. Reached Stockbridge in time for 
dinner. Mr Martin went back this evening.” 


 

Oct 22 – “Bitterly cold night – ice forming even. Thermometer at 40 all day. Sun bright however and we have walked a 
good deal. Read from ‘Modern Philanthropy’ (Dr Allen’s)” 

 

Oct 23 – “Slept this morning after a miserable night. Drove this afternoon to Echo Lake bringing home ground pine. Miss 
Lavery spent evening shampooing, manicuring etc” 

 

Oct 24 – “Clouds again and heavy. Looked at rooms and 6. Or one over it 37 would be our choice for another year. Miss 
Lavery here another evening.” 

 

Oct 25 – “Miserable weather and we decided to leave Stockbridge at noon and go to New York to be located at The 
Collingwood 45 West 35th Street.” 

 

Oct 26 – “Sunday. New York. Slept very late this morning. Mrs Peckham dined with us at noon. Late in afternoon we 
called upon Terhunes.” 

 

Oct 27 – “Shopped Altmans and Swinos[?] this morning. Holcombes had luncheon with us. Dined with Terhunes this 
evening.” 

 

Oct 28 – “Shopped at Gimbel’s this morning. Bertha, Ruth and Baby, at the Collingwood guests of ‘Maggie’s’ for the 
afternoon. Very hot 74 degrees on 9th floor! Dined at Mrs Peckham’s this evening.” 

 

Oct 29 – “Shopped for linen all day, stopping on our way from Fried Mendelson’s (221 Fourth Av near 18th) at Suffrage 
Headquarters. Lunch, Waldorf. Finished ‘On The Branch’ this evening.” 

 

Oct 30 – “Wretched day with poor circulation and stayed in our room until time to leave this evening for home.” 

 

Oct 31 – “Arrived Buffalo this morning. Munder spent couple of hours with us and this afternoon Ida and Anna came out 
for tea. Very cold with light fall of snow this morning.” 

 

November 1 – “Met Charlie at 7.45 this A.M. and brought him out for breakfast. Had to leave at 10.45! Marketed with 
Isabelle after leaving station. Afternoon tea at Ida’s for Anna. Mrs Spear in this evening.” 

 

Nov 2 – “Sunday. Buffalo. Church with I.R.M. my first in new Church. Dinner with Thekla. Called later on Anna who 
returns to-night. Quiet evening at home.” 

 

Nov 3 – “Morning given to unpacking and to Miss Sellien’s. Home this afternoon and evening. Munder coming in for 
tea.” 

 

Nov 4 – “Club morning. Mrs. Camchl[?] and Mrs Spear papers on Ruskin. Munder’s guests this afternoon at Tuesday 
Club to hear Hyatt Smith read paper on Carlyle at Mrs Lautz’s. Sad election!” 

 

Nov 5 – “Home this morning with walk at noon in Park. Ida here for luncheon. Called with Isabelle at four to talk Smith 
with Bertha and Mame.” 

 

Nov 6 – “Took girls to Sem. Luncheon with Isabelle at Munder’s. Her guests at 20th Cent. to hear Mrs MacDowell on 
Peterboro Pageant. Spending night also at Munder’s.” 

 

Nov 7 – “Took ‘Jim’ down to Office and kept out this wonderful Indian Summer Day all of morning. Sewed on 
Edinburgh napkins and came home about five. Evening alone with Isabelle recounting talks of the day.” 


 

Nov 8 – “Rain – market morning. Began ‘The Squirrel Cage’ and read most of day.” 

 

Nov 9 – “Sunday. cloudy with some rain. Church this morning – no guests and enjoyed much reading.” 

 

Nov 10 – “Wretchedly cold - six inches of snow fell – regular winter. The Parkers were ‘game’ just the same and came 
here for dinner giving us a delightful evening.” 

 

Nov 11 – “Luncheon with Isabelle and others with Mrs Bugbee. Five o’clock heard at Mrs Rumseys one of the series of 
trio recitals given by Ethel Newcomb and the Hambourgs” 

 

Nov 12 – “Busy morning at home – flowers, putting away summer clothes etc. Heard one of the Bible Class series 
conducted by Mrs Goodyear.” 

 

Nov 13 – “Down town this morning giving Xmas orders etc. Heard Mrs Alice Stebbins Wells give her experiences as the 
first woman policeman.” 

 

Nov 14 – “Down town morning with Mrs Morey with us. Long nap this afternoon, followed by a late visit to Nichols 
School.” 

 

Nov 15 – “Miss Sellien’s this morning. Jessie spent afternoon with me while family saw ‘The Poor Little Rich Girl.’” 

 

Nov 16 – “Slept late – then made a noon call upon Thekla. Miss Hagarty here for dinner. We all went to supper at the 
Barcalos.” 

 

Nov 17 – “Mrs Barton with me this morning and for luncheon. Out to Buffalo Pottery and other errands this afternoon.” 

 

Nov 18 blank 

Nov 19 blank 

Nov 20 blank 

Nov 21 blank 

 

Nov 22 – “Wakened with a temperature & other grip symptoms, so left the party & came home. Harvard won so didn’t 
miss so much – but of course Isabelle & Dorothy were disappointed.” 

 

Nov 23 blank 

Nov 24 blank 

Nov 25 blank 

Nov 26 blank 

 

Nov 27 – “Thanksgiving Day with my nephew and my nieces a pleasant experience! Ruth, Douglas & the baby arrived 
last night.” 

 

Nov 28 – “Drove around thro’Garden City and made a call with Constance & Bertha where we had tea. Leaving this 
evening.” 

 

Nov 29 – “Arrived two hours late this morning. Unpacked and settled down for all winter I hope!” 

 

Nov 30 – “Didn’t go to church this morning. Mary here for dinner and I took the girls down to hear ‘Elijah’ at First 
Church. Perfectly beautiful!” 


 

December 1 – “Day given to quiet pleasures at home and to preparations for Mr Graham’s lecture here on Browning’s 
Attitude towards The Renaissance.” 

 

Dec 2 – “Rested part of morning. then Isabelle ran down to utter a few complaints to Miss Angell while I did a few 
errands. Called on Mrs Dann to read letter about scholarships.” 

 

Dec 3 – “Took flowers to Mr Martins Lillian who is ill, then later drove down the River Road for pussy willows to be 
forced for the Xmas giving of begonias. Mrs Merrill’s guests for tea at Church of G. [ ].” 

 

Dec 4 – “Down town by my lone nearly all day, shampoo etc. Ordered Beau Manor Park books and did a lot towards 
Xmas.” 

 

Dec 5- “Wonderful weather! Drove out Williamsville ‘way’ taking with us Mrs Morey, Mrs Staples, and Mrs Merrill. 
Got out and walked and had a lovely time.” 

 

Dec 6 – “Long morning down town Xmas shopping. Bertha and Mame here for dinner.” 

 

Dec 7 – “Home all day – quiet Sunday until night when Mrs Coonley Ward appeared with her train to whom we served 
tea. Mr Martin returned from Utica.” 

 

Dec 8 – “Busy morning at home. Spent hour at Franklin School watching Dalcroze dancing and tried later to hear Mrs 
Richard Cabot but there were no seats.” 

 

Dec 9 – “At home all day catching up.” 

 

Dec 10 – “Home all morning. Luncheon at Mrs Barton’s. Started at four to motor to Elma where we all had supper with 
the Boards” 

Dec 11 – “Very cold indeed. Made five neighborhood calls. Thekla here for dinner.” 

 

Dec 12 – “Home morning. Tea at Mrs Reidpaths at four. Last trio music at Mrs Mortons. Sat in library from where we 
could watch sunset, with poplars swaying to the rhythm of music!” 

 

Dec 13 – “Down town this morning. Nice call on Jessie. Visited Joseph’s children this afternoon. Called on Madame 
Severance. Did up Xmas presents until 11 P.M.” 

 

Dec 14 – “Walked to church with Thekla this morning. Bartons here for goose dinner. Mrs Morey and Benedict here for 
supper.” 

 

Dec 15 – “Mrs Morey away until Friday because of a death, and Benedict is with us.” 

 

Dec 16 – “Pre-Raphaelite morning at the Club very enjoyable. Wedding call on Violet Heath pleasurable to me because 
of her mother!” 

 

Dec 17 blank 

 

Dec 18 – “Much Xmassing! Heard Florence Ralph’s recital.” 

 

Dec 19 blank 

Dec 20 blank 


 

Dec 21 – “Sunday. Isabelle all in this morning and remained at home with her. Xmas vesper service at First Church. 
Bartons, Billy Van Arnim[?] here for supper.” 

 

Dec 22 – “Well ahead on Xmas schedule. Dorothy had a small dance this evening.” 

 

Dec 23 – “Selection of plants for Xmas giving. Mrs. Hurlburt’s basket distribution of gifts filled day.” 

 

Dec 24 – “Took around last of gifts this morning. Municipal tree in Lafayette Square this evening.” 

 

Dec 25 – “Quiet day beginning with jokes in our Xmas stockings, then real gifts from the tree. Ralph, Barton, Barcalo, 
Morey, Foster, Prentiss, & Simpson families with Thekla for supper. Carol singing ending with Wassail Song.” 

 

Dec 26 – “Took Reidpaths home this morning and rested remainder of day, calling late in afternoon on Mrs Merrill, May 
S. and Mrs Spear.” 

 

Dec 27 – “At home until 4.30, calls from Mrs Bailey and Mrs Goodyear. Made calls finding no one in but Miss Falkner. 
Our first taste of Tagore’s writings!!!” 

 

Dec 28 – “Sunday, slept late, went to Central Church. Sermon ‘Eternity in the Heart’. Called on Mrs Simpson after 
dinner. Wills here for supper.” 

 

Dec 29 blank 

Dec 30 blank 

 

Dec 31 – “Busy day preparing for Dorothy’s dinner to-morrow. Isabelle and I have enjoyed Victrola music this evening 
and Mrs Browning. We burned our bayberry candle and welcomed the New Year.” 

 

1914 

 

January 1 –“ Buffalo – lovely New Year’s Day. Decorated for Dorothy’s dinner – 40 guests. Attended William Rogers 
and Margaret Townsend’s wedding – beautiful beyond anything I ever saw.” 

 

Jan 2 – “Nice walk with Isabelle this morning. Went to Art Gallery to See Bakst Exhibition and incidentally Mlle 
Pavlowa. Bakst designs all her costumes and settings.” 

 

Jan 3 – “Isabelle ill with severe headache and cold – grippe I’m afraid. Gave up Pavlowa.” 

 

Jan 4 – “Sunday. Barton’s here for dinner, but ran up to Mrs Simpson’s for a few minutes with flowers having heard of 
Dr Busch’s death. Darwin went to-night. I had supper at Lenox with Ida and Betty.” 

 

Jan 5 – “Cosy day in guest room with fire for first time, reading aloud ‘Sadhana’ and The Browning Letters. Mrs. Morey 
in for tea – Isabelle better of course.” 

 

Jan 6 – “Tuesday Study Club met here which means that in less than two weeks we have entertained 125 people. Dr 
Smith read paper on Ruskin.” 

 

Jan 7 – “Down town this morning. Mrs and Miss Mann out for tea.” 

 

Jan 8 – “Home morning. Heard N.Y. Sym. Orchestra this afternoon, also Alfred Mayes[?] lecture.” 


 

Jan 9 – “Home all day. Dined at Jessie’s to-night.” 

 

Jan 10 – “German Club for luncheon. Chromatic Club this afternoon – charmed with Madame Aucken[?].” 

 

Jan 11 – “Sunday – communion. Went with Thekla and had dinner with her.” 

 

Jan 12 – “Zero weather and gales. Munder and Miss Misner here for luncheon. Read Tagore. Evening cards – table-cloth 
humming T. B . Aldrich Letters.” 

 

Jan 13 – “Eight degrees below zero enforced a quiet day at home.” 

 

Jan 14 blank 

 

Jan 15 – “No voice at all and had Mrs Will come out for long talk and treatment.” 

 

Jan 16 – “In my room all day – voice some better.” 

 

Jan 17 – “Luncheon - guests being Mrs Foster, Mrs Dold, Mrs Will and Ida. Calls from some of the girls late in the 
afternoon filled our day. Dorothy entertained this evening.” 

 

Jan 18 – “Sunday, girls out and we got dinner by ourselves. Evening spent in the Flat where Dorothy served us our 
supper.” 

 

Jan 19 – “In all day reading and looking over bills etc. Mrs Dann here for luncheon.” 

 

Jan 20 – “Literary Club morning on Morris. Down for errands in the afternoon. Mr Martin returned from Chicago – 
made trustee of the church this evening.” 

 

Jan 21 – “Miss Gibran here all day. Went at 4.30 to Mrs Heath’s reception to introduce her daughter Violet Townsend 
Heath.” 

 

Jan 22 – “Beautiful morning – walked over to May Staples. Drove from there down and ordered our suits at Clements. 
Called this afternoon on Mrs Townsend, Mrs Bugbee, Munder, and Ida.” 

 

Jan 23 – “Out this morning. Mrs Steven’s tea this afternoon in honor of Miss McConnell.” 

 

Jan 24 – “At home all day. Mrs Simpson and Mr Foster here for dinner.” 

 

Jan 25 – “Sunday - church with Thekla. Walked with I.R.M. after service in Park. Lovely winter’s day.” 

 

Jan 26 – “Down town. Clement’s etc. Saw Stratford-on-Avon Players, those we wished to see in the Memorial Theatre 
this summer – give The Taming of The Shrew. Box a satisfactory experiment.” 

 

Jan 27 – “Heard Mr F. R. Benson – leader of Stratford Players lecture on Shakespeare at The Seminary. Mrs Prentiss gave 
program at open meeting of H.P.S.C. this morning. Mrs Simpson and Mrs Morey.” 

 

Jan 28 – “Walked both morning and afternoon a mile or more. Mrs Esty out for tea.” 

 


Jan 29 – “Very warm – temperature nearly 60. Luncheon at Mrs Simpson’s with Ida & Mrs Underhill & Isabelle. Tea at 
Mrs Heath’s. Kept Thekla for dinner from music lesson.” 

 

Jan 30 – “Looked out for Mrs Curtis this morning. Ida & Margaret came out at ten and talked Europe, staying for 
luncheon. Tetrazzini – Ruff’s concert this evening.” 

 

Jan 31 – “Storming again and much colder. Luncheon with Clara Allen. Dr Russell out to see Mrs Curtis.” 

 

February 1 – “Sunday. Frida in bed all day, so was at home all day. Sad outlook at the Curtises.” 

 

Feb 2 – “More illness! Eliza down in bed. Day practically given over to Mrs Curtis. Consultation of doctor proving her 
healing of cancer. Mental derangement coming from weak nerves.” 

 

Feb 3 – “At home for John cannot leave his wife.” 

 

Feb 4 – “Dinner to-night and a pleasant evening with Sarah and Mrs Clifton.” 

 

Feb 5 – “John took his wife to Canada to-day. Called with Isabelle upon Mrs. Northrup where we met May Martin and 
later we spent an hour with Mrs Bailey.” 

 

Feb 6 – “Mrs Barcalo here for afternoon - took her car and made unsuccessful attempt to find a cook in Eliza’s place.” 

 

Feb 7 – “Dreadful day of blizzards. Lunched at The Women’s Exchange with D. & I. and did errands until four o’clock.” 

 

Feb 8 – “Sunday, at home all day helping Frida until evening when we went to Mrs Bartons for supper.” 

 

Feb 9 – “Read hard at ‘The Nest of Linnets’ after housework. Afternoon at Mrs.Moreys with other neighbors. Mrs 
Simpson here for dinner planning for lecture given here by Mrs John Freeman Knox on our schools.” 

 

Feb 10 – “Delightful luncheon at Mrs John Morris[?] with Mame, Clara Allen and Isabelle, after which we attended 
meeting of Simplicity League.” 

 

Feb 11 – “Temperature still below zero – but we were out this morning for errands & heard Dr. Goldthwaite this 
afternoon on ‘Posture and its Relation to Health.’ 

 

Feb 12 – “Called on Ida – my last glimpse of their house – and Clara Allen while Isabelle was at Seminary. Home rest of 
day.” 

 

Feb 13 – “Miss Angell here for luncheon. Miss Sackett brought an English – New York architect, Mr Balletude[?] out for 
tea, and to study the house.” 

 

Feb 14 – “Errands – Mrs Simpson with us. Luncheon for Dorothy & Dorothea with Misses Jauch, Wright and Miss 
Newcomb as guests. After they left we distributed plants.” 

 

Feb 15 – “Sunday’s paper reports of worst blizzard since 1888 makes me glad I have delayed going home. Sunny & 
bright here but very cold still.” 

 

Feb 16 – “Lecture by Mrs. John Knox Freeman here on public schools well attended. A great day with Mr. Wright – 
architect of this house. Heard Yeat’s lecture this evening at Club.” 

 


Feb 17 – “Mrs Spear’s paper on Wm Morris at Club. Mrs Merrill gave luncheon at The Statler – 15 guests. Called on Mrs 
Mann who sent us to Mrs Bull’s to see Marsden Hartley’s pictures.” 

 

Feb 18 – “Luncheon at Mrs Nichols with May Staples & Sarah Clifton. Afterwards looked up Grafonola for Municipal 
Hospital. Eve. called on Mrs Haydon at Lenox.” 

 

Feb 19 – “Ida here for luncheon. Leaves to-night for ten months abroad. Saw exhibition of pottery – Persian blues – at 
Cent. Club – perfectly beautiful.” 

 

Feb 20 – “Hair shampooed and errands. Ordered Grafonola and records for Municipal Hospital.” 

 

Feb 21 – “Bad neck from cold water put on my head yesterday. Dorothy gave a sleigh-ride to-night which was a great 
success.” 

 

Feb 22 – “In bed all day with exhaustion, neuritis, etc.” 

 

Feb 23 – “Some better – visited Dr R. again however.” 

 

Feb 24 – “Busy day getting ready to go home for few days. Much better from a few visits to Dr Russell.” 

 

Feb 25 – “Thawed out engine at intervals all night – and five hours late in consequence. Arrived Hartford just before 
meeting of Smith Club. Hurriedly arranged flowers brought from B. and enjoyed afternoon very much.” 

 

Feb 26 – “Such beautiful winter weather in Hartford! Visited hard all day.” 

 

Feb 27 – “Down town this morning and went this afternoon with Hattie to Young Womens Club which met with Mrs 
Allen.” 

 

Feb 28 – “Ruth Sherburne, Mary Parsons, and Lyon here for luncheon, and they with Tom, Hattie and I saw ‘The School 
for Scandal’ delightfully given by Annie Russell and her company.” 

 

March 1 – “Sunday. Hartford. Fearful rain. Herrick and Lilian here for dinner – my first glimpse of the latter and a very 
pleasant one.” 

 

Mar 2 – “Yesterday’s storm wrought havoc in New York. At home all day except for vespers at Trinity. Com. met here 
this evening to discuss Farmington Ave. Church proposition and we served them cocoa.” 

 

Mar 3 – “Beautiful day. Temperature 60 on Miss Mary’s veranda. Made the usual round of calls – lunched with Miss 
Mary and dined at Ruby’s – returning to Hartford at 9.25.” 

 

Mar 4 – “Hattie in bed with terrible cold.” 

 

Mar 5 blank 

Mar 6 blank 

Mar 7 blank 

 

March 8 – “Sunday, packed and rushed down to hear Charlie once more in Park Church. Left at 3.10 for NY and are 
happily located with Isabelle at ‘The Bonta[?] – Broadway and 94th.” 

 

Mar 9 – “Five hours with Miss Telz to-day ending with dinner in our room.” 


 

Mar 10 – “Lunched and dined at The Marsailles – Broadway & 103rd – very nice” 

 

Mar 11 – “Lunched at the little Patisserie. Miss Telz spending only a short time with Isabelle this morning. Went to four 
o’clock service at St John the Divine and heard violin & organ together first time.” 

 

Mar 12 – “Read ‘Lecture’ by Mr McCracken then we went down to Metropolitan Art Gallery just for catalogues. Home 
remainder of day.” 

 

Mar 13 – “Visited Grant’s tomb and was surprised to note its resemblance to Napoleon’s!” 

 

Mar 14 – “Very cold still in New York, and snow is consequently not disappearing fast. Made a discovery in Alice 
Mayward’s[?] shop on Broadway and 85th.” 

 

Mar 15 blank 

Mar 16 blank 

Mar 17 blank 

Mar 18 blank 

Mar 19 blank 

 

Mar 20 – “Spent morning at Miss Gilmans Parlors at 72nd & Broadway.” 

 

Mar 21 blank 

 

Mar 22 – “Miss Telz went to station with us & saw us off for Boston. Walked to Church of the Advent for evening 
service. Pleasant to return to Bellevue.” 

 

Mar 23 – “Shopped at intervals - visited Mr Dill’s office. Heavy snow squalls. Dined alone with Edith.” 

 

Mar 24 – “Met Mabel Rhoades just as I was leaving Hotel! Spent afternoon at South Shore beginning with Bulrush Farm 
at North Scituate and ending with Stewarts Jerusalem Road North Cohasset! Lovely experience.” 

 

Mar 25 – “Read in ‘The Prince of the House of David’ which we cannot let alone! Early luncheon & spent afternoon 
North Shore. Pleased with Mr Neal’s home at Clifton – Cromington[?] at Devereux. Cold. hard experience.” 

 

Mar 26 – “Morning spent in Mr Dill’s office. Charmed with Mr Brown – proprietor of Bulrush Farm! Talked also with 
Mr Neal [Sc tist]. Left Boston this evening for Buffalo once more.” 

 

Mar 27 – “Arrived this morning. Stopped at Sem. on way out in response to note received up in auto. Spent hour with 
Laura listening to thrilling tales of Wellesley fire. Decided upon Bulrush Farm by wire.” 

 

Mar 28 – “A wonderful experience hearing Forbes Robertson (cousin of Benson the Stratford player) in ‘The Passing of 
the Third Floor Back’. Box Party – Miss Crawford, Mrs Hibbard, Mrs Spear, and Mrs Parmelee, congenial group.” 

 

Mar 29 – “Sunday – soft and spring-like. Quiet day with Mr Martin in Baltimore and Frida out. No cook yet. Called on 
Mr Johnston. Pop concert[?] at Fort good.” 

 

Mar 30 – “Telegraphed our decision for Bulrush Farm, No. Scituate owned by Mr Wendell F. Brown. 71 Colchester 
Street Brookline. Miss Dotey here for two weeks. Bartons in for dinner.” 

 


Mar 31 – “Busy day with tailors – milliners, dress” 

 

April 1 – “A long call on Mame this morning. Bought my spring hat - lunching on Allen Street - and met Isabelle at 
Century Club.” 

 

Apr 2 – “Late morning errands taking Mrs Morey with us and lunching at The Club.” 

 

Apr 3 – “Wellesley Dance this evening at Sem. Dinner for Dorothy – Jean & Walter, Russell Hally and Billy guests. I. 
& Mr M. at Whitford dinner.” 

 

Apr 4 – “Darwin arrived this morning.” 

 

Apr 5 – “Sunday. Home with Isabelle who has been in bed all day – except for a call this afternoon upon Thekla who is 
also ill.” 

 

Apr 6 – “Heart Mrs Hedstrom speak upon ‘Simplicity’ at The Seminary this A. M. Munder had tea with us – and Mame 
and Bertha called.” 

 

Apr 7 – “Entertained at luncheon. J.C.H. for my first time at Twentieth Century. Miss Sellien’s later. Rain and a home 
evening – anagrams with Darwin.” 

 

Apr 8 – “Busy over our summer house-keeping this morning. Hospital this afternoon to see Mrs Curtis. Mrs Morey with 
us for tea.” 

 

Apr 9 – “’This happy pair’ have enjoyed I.R.M’s birthday. Bought our tickets etc this morning. Munder out this 
afternoon with ‘Gubbio’ & flowers. Read ‘Post Office’ this eve – Tagore’s ‘Bluebird.’” 

 

Apr 10 – “Good Friday. An hour at Trinity and lunched at Twentieth Century. . Errands, then finished preparations for 
our leaving en famille this evening for vacation at North Scituate.” 

Apr 11 – “Arrived Boston 10.50. Shopped a bit and lunched (unsatisfactory) at Parker House. Laura met us at Station 
and we came down to N. Scituate meeting Mr Brown on the train.” 

 

Apr 12 – “Bulrush Farm ‘Egypt.’ Easter Sunday. Heavenly day for out-door ‘exploring’! Everybody charmed with the 
place. Mr M., Darwin and James left this evening.” 

 

Apr 13 – “Early breakfast for Laura to take train. ‘Marketed’. Long walk in afternoon on ‘our estate’. Pleasant evening 
call from Mr & Mrs Brown.” 

 

Apr 14 – “Another sunny day but very windy. Enjoyed the ingle nook all day reading Adam Bede.” 

 

Apr 15 – “Rainy day, surf booming loudly. James came in afternoon for the night.” 

 

Apr 16 – “Cold, with slight snow flurries. Knitting, books and Canfield in the ingle-nook still pleasant diversion.” 

 

Apr 17 – “Beautiful day. Dorothy drove to Harbor for (tough) lobsters for luncheon. Preparations for home-going. alas!” 

 

Apr 18 – “Left N. Scituate at noon. Hotel Bellevue again. Dorothy left this eve. for B. with Miss Heald. Isabelle & I 
attended Memorial Services at Old North Church conducted by Dean Hodges.” 

 


Apr 19 – “Blistering hot day. Attended Mother Church. Left Boston at two and got as far as Pittsfield where we spent 
night on account of shower.” 

 

Apr 20 – “Late breakfast – then left for Stockbridge where we are charmingly located in Room 6 at The Inn.” 

 

Apr 21 – “Rain & cold. ‘Dropped in’ to the Library & read a clever little story by Elizabeth Jordon, ‘Mr Crosby’s Rest 
Cure’. Knitted hard rest of day.” 

 

Apr 22 – “The most wonderful of all our days in Stockbridge finding arbutus near Monument Mt. Leaving this evening 
for Buffalo.” 

 

Apr 23 – “Arrived at 6.30. Munder came out at 10.30 bringing Mr N. P. McKenzie with her with whom I had an 
uncomfortable time about Mr Kratzer.” 

 

Apr 24 – “Municipal Hospital this morning finishing victrola business. May Staples here for tea this afternoon.” 

 

Apr 25 – “Luncheon at The Statler to hear Dr Katherine Davis speak upon Bedford Reformatory & kindred subjects. Mrs 
Pray spent the evening with us until 11.45.” 

Apr 26 – “Sunday - church. Called upon the Ralphs. Simpsons here for supper and we have had a lovely time.” 

 

Apr 27 – “Down town a large part of day, lunching at Club where we began the first of the articles on the Life of 
Rhibany[?] whom Mrs S. considers more wonderful than Mary Auten[?].” 

 

Apr 28 – “Last meeting of Literary Club. Luncheon at Munders with Mrs Ernest Montgomery. Interesting talk on 
education - The Nichols School in particular. Florence R’s recital in eve.” 

 

Apr 29 blank [mistakenly recorded Apr 29, 1915 here] 

Apr 30 blank [mistakenly recorded Apr 30, 1915 here] 

 

May 1 blank [mistakenly recorded May 1, 1915 here] 

May 2 blank [mistakenly recorded May 2, 1915 here] 

 

May 3 – “Sunday, church. Calls in afternoon from Mrs Northrop & May M. also Mr Marble from The Bonstelle Stock 
Co. a friend of ‘Nunie’[?] Bartons in for supper.” 

 

May 4 – “Shampoo – luncheon at The Club. Attended later tea given by Mrs Tuttle for Mrs Ralph.” 

 

May 5 – “Out all the morning. Munder here for tea.” 

 

May 6 – “Day given to the entertaining of Mrs. Miller – tea at The Club – Art Gallery etc. She and her husband dined 
with us and left for their home soon after.” 

 

May 7 – “Made a half dozen calls or more with Isabelle.” 

 

May 8 – “Out nearly all day – dressmaker, millener, etc.” 

 

May 9 – “Went to tea given by Mrs Webber for Mrs Armstrong this afternoon. Heard Amato[?] this evening at May 
Festival Concert.” 

 

May 10 – “Sunday. Busy day. Isabelle knocked out and the Barcalo family dined here.” 


 

May 11 – “Rain – and we had few guests at our tea at The Guild. Mrs Morey & Benedict here for dinner.” 

 

May 12 – “Still rainy and so cold! Had Miss McKinnon out for tea and heard a fresh view point concerning The Guild of 
Allied Arts.” 

 

May 13 – “Attended Com. Meeting at Mrs Prentiss’ and heard all about the plans for the Musical Extension work of the 
Chromatic Club.” 

 

May 14 – “We are quite enthusiastic over helping the Guild of Allied Arts and had Mrs Dold, Mrs Parker and Munder out 
for tea to enlist their services.” 

 

May 15 – “My auto hat purchased this morning. Mrs Hammond’s tea at The Park Club this afternoon.” 

 

May 16 – “Down town both morning and afternoon – settling trunks for college etc. Practically finished ‘Adam Bede’ 
this evening.” 

 

May 17 – “Church with Thekla. Saw ‘her house’ with her this afternoon - Dorothy taking us in electric.” 

 

May 18 – “Much luncheon at Mrs Spear’s with Isabelle. Several callers late in afternoon.” 

 

May 19 – “Beautiful day! Took Miss Lee for an auto ride along Lake Shore stopping at Eyn[?] Court Inn at Wanaka for 
tea.” 

 

May 20 – “Lectures at Mrs Barrell’s in the interests of The Chromatic Club from Mr Abbott and Dr McLennan. 80 
degrees today.” 

 

May 21 – “Perfect day. Luncheon on veranda. After nap made several neighborhood calls – errands etc.” 

 

May 22 – “The Staples & Prentisses here for dinner. Mr S. read fine paper on Tagore, May illustrating it with poems. 
Mary P. sang Tagore’s Songs – music written by John Alden Carpenter.” 

 

May 23 – Discovered our little Clark twins – ‘Cora and Isabelle.’ Finished ‘Adam Bede.’” 

 

May 24 – Sunday, church with Thekla. Mr Marble and Mr Bloomer here for afternoon and supper.” 

 

May 25 – “Dentists – with little to be done! The Kirbys here for dinner.” 

 

May 26 – “Morning at dentist’s. Afternoon at home. Ran over with I. & D. to the Fosters this evening.” 

 

May 27 – “Tried to have country run with Mame but were prevented by rain. Brought her home for luncheon. Reidpaths 
here for dinner.” 

 

May 28 – “Country run to Newfane taking Miss Heald and Margaret to call upon the Buffum[?] family. Dinner at The 
Automobile Club.” 

 

May 29 – “Beautiful veranda day trying to finish Hattie’s chiffon scarf. These grounds are so beautiful! Mrs Parmelee 
out for tea.” 

 


May 30 – “Mr Martin home all day. So was I until five o’clock when we went to see the new Wilkes baby and Thekla in 
her new home 211 Anderson.” 

 

May 31 – “A lovely Sunday. Church. The Wells here for supper.” 

 

June 1 blank 

 

Jun 2 – “Cold – temp. about 60. Went to see ‘The Rainbow’ given by ‘The Bonstelle Stock Co.’ Darwin home.” 

 

Jun 3 – “Down town twice to-day. Brought Miss Crawford out with us to dinner.” 

 

Jun 4 – “Errands and calls all day.” 

 

Jun 5 – “Spent morning hunting yellow roses for Dorothy’s costume. Greek Dancing this evening at Seminary very 
choice. Isabelle and Mr Martin left for Boston.” 

 

Jun 6 – “Growing warmer. Suffrage Parade this afternoon a thrilling sight. Outdoor supper with the children and early to 
bed.” 

 

Jun 7 – “Very sultry Sunday – no church for any of us. Packed most of the day.” 

 

Jun 8 blank [mistakenly recorded Jun 8, 1915 here] 

Jun 9 blank [mistakenly recorded Jun 9, 1915 here] 

 

Jun 10 – “Class Day at The Seminary. Dorothy took part in ‘The Prophecy’ and awarded Seminarian prizes. Boiling hot 
day! Supper on veranda with the Bartons and Mrs Haines as guests.” 

 

Jun 11 – “Graduation Day! Dorothy happy with many flowers and gifts. Down town this evening doing last things.” 

 

Jun 12 – “Very busy day indeed preparatory to our departure to-morrow for The Farm.” 

 

Jun 13 – “Left at noon with Isabelle. Darwin & the maids for Albany where John met us with car and we are comfortably 
located at The Ten Eyck. The Fosters came out to see us off.” 

 

Jun 14 – “Left Albany at 8.30 and reached Red Lion Inn at noon where we rested two hours. Drove thro a bower of laurel 
this afternoon – reaching Springfield for the night. Ames and family called.” 

 

Jun 15 – “Left Sp. at nine. Stopped 11 o’clock at Leicester Inn where we found charming hospitality! Southboro Arms 
Hotel for luncheon delightful place. Fine run from there to N. Scituate which we reached at six.” 

 

Jun 16 – “Pretty tired from the trip and have taken day easily – finding everything thus far as delightful as we had 
anticipated.” 

 

Jun 17 – “Perfectly infatuated with the odors – wild – roses, grapes & bay!” 

 

Jun 18 blank 

Jun 19 blank 

 

Jun 20 – “Interesting experience marketing this morning, discovering Mr Frye. Edith came noon for over Sunday. 
Visited Marshfield this afternoon to see Webster Memorial (‘Clam Bake’)” 


 

Jun 21 – “Sunday. A quiet day reading, visiting, with a short drive this evening.” 

 

Jun 22 – “Edith left us this noon having had a lovely time I know. Rested quietly rest of day.” 

 

Jun 23 – “Drove over to Lexington. Dinner at ‘The Russell House’. Called on Mrs Tilton and Mrs Goodwin, also at The 
Tavern. Took Hattie back to Scituate with us.” 

 

Jun 24 – “Marketed this morning & read ‘The Chippendales’ . Napped this afternoon. This evening lovely drive to 
Hingham seeing ‘The Old Ship’ Church, home by Jerusalem Road.” 

 

Jun 25 – “Hattie left this morning early. Mr M., Dorothy & James came this noon. Weather very hot & dry, no rain for 
six weeks, which accounts for the tragedy of Salem fire.” 

 

Jun 26 – “Isabelle’s 25th wedding anniversary. Darwin presented the Cup. We all drove to Plymouth – stopping en route 
to put out fire. P. exceeds my anticipation.” 

 

Jun 27 – “Dorothy’s 18th birthday. Mrs Morey and Benedict arrived at noon. Spent evening at Nantasket.” 

 

Jun 28 – “Sunday – quiet day.” 

 

Jun 29 – “James left for Maine to-day. Moreys in town sight-seeing all day, so we have had a restful season.” 

 

Jun 30 – “Explored Hingham and have lost our hearts to her. The Chimes presented by Hingham England a great gift!!” 

 

July 1 – “Many errands this morning. Most of family sailed this afternoon.” 

 

Jul 2 – “Rained nearly all day. Walked to village however this evening. Reading ‘Captain Courageous’.” 

 

Jul 3 – “Afternoon in Boston with Mrs Morey and Isabelle. Saw ‘Henry Sumner’ in Filene’s!” 

 

Jul 4 – “Lovely Fourth! Bartons arrived this morning. Drove this afternoon to Rock Spring House - while others fished.” 

 

Jul 5 – “Sunday – ‘church’ in the summer house after which Mr M. read aloud. Quiet rest of day while others drove.” 

 

Jul 6 – “Buzzard’s Bay trip for Bartons and Moreys – the rest of us enjoying a quiet day.” 

 

Jul 7 – “Isabelle not well and we are most unhappy in our minds also. Have enjoyed these days Laura’s reading aloud 
from her Eng. Lit. notes.” 

 

Jul 8 – “Home recovering for we ladies knitting and reading. Drive this afternoon. Pedro this evening.” 

 

Jul 9 – “Discovered on our drive to-day the quaintest tea-room of any in our experience – Beacon Tea Room at Cohasset.” 

 

Jul 10 – “Foggy day. Mrs Morey and Benedict left this morning. We drove over to Beacon Tea Room again this 
afternoon.” 

 

Jul 11 – “Thro the never-failing kindness of Mr B. we have enjoyed the launching of the battleship ‘Nevada’ at Quincy 
Ship yard.” 

 


Jul 12 – “Sunday. Spent day with Edith talking most of afternoon with her and Mrs Thomas about California 
proposition.” 

 

Jul 13 – “Wrote letters and did many house things to-day. Supper this evening on the rocks at Minot – driving later to 
Nantasket. Wonderful sunset.” 

 

Jul 14 – “Charming Duxbury Day. Luncheon at Powder Point[?] Hall [ ]. I.R.M. & I made wreath for Myles Standish 
grave. Talked with 9th John Alden living in Alden House. Tea at James Alden’s house.” 

 

Jul 15 – “Home day. Walked to village with Dorothy stopping for soda and at tea-room etc.” 

 

Jul 16 – “Bartons with I.R.M. went to Sudbury. Very hot day.” 

 

Jul 17 – “Bartons left this morning. Rest of day spent in re-adjusting rooms.” 

 

Jul 18 – “Dorothy & Helen arrived this morning the first installment of Dorothys house-party. Christine Herrick is also 
our guest over Sunday. Drove to Laure[?] Party on Webster estate.” 

 

Jul 19 – “Lovely quiet day visiting with Christine who is most entertaining. Drove late this afternoon to Hingham.” 

 

Jul 20 – “Took Christine to Plymouth where we were joined by Eric and Paul for dinner, who later took C. down to 
Hyannisport.” 

 

Jul 21 – “Home all day. John working upon car. Very heavy shower at sunset causing damage by lightning in all this 
region.” 

 

Jul 22 – “Busy and satisfactory day in town, having Dorothy’s eyes examined, buying books, etc. K. Cooke has joined 
our family.” 

 

Jul 23 blank 

 

Jul 24 – “Days are busy now getting enough to eat and planning for girls.” 

 

Jul 25 – “Mr Martin with the two Margarets arrived this morning – completing the house-party. Took them to Doxbury 
for tea this afternoon.” 

 

Jul 26 – “Sunday – quiet day for me – at home all day.” 

 

Jul 27 – “Mr Martin & girls gone to Boston for two days sight-seeing.” 

 

Jul 28 – “Rainy day – quiet and lovely.” 

 

Jul 29 – “Hired auto, and we have all been down to opening of Cape Cod Canal, seeing first civic parade at Sandwich, 
best ever have seen. Joe Jefferson buried at S.” 

 

Jul 30 – “Rained this morning and I have been in all day. Freda not well and have ‘spelled’ her all I could.” 

 

Jul 31 – “General European war declared and everything is all excitement!” 

 

August 1 blank 


 

Aug 2 – “Sunday. Katherine and Helen left us to-day. Freda in bed all day. Doctor twice.” 

 

Aug 3 – “Freda some better but it has been a day of much housework and anxiety all the same.” 

 

Aug 4 – “Mr Martin went back this evening chuckling up his sleeve that he is ready for any crises.” 

 

Aug 5 – “Quiet day – the girls lunching with Miss Heald. Cloudiness continues. War news not re-assuring as England is 
officially in.” 

 

Aug 6 – “Freda all right again. John summoned home by telegram.” 

 

Aug 7 – “German Club departed to-day. Took one in this afternoon for N. Y. train. Shopped and called on Edith and 
there met Dorothy with other two girls and had supper at Essex Hotel (very nice) before our final separation.” 

 

Aug 8 – “Actually alone once more and a quiet house is very pleasant. Took a lovely woods drive this afternoon with 
Stanley.” 

 

Aug 9 – “Quiet Sunday. Drove to Hanover, Norwell etc this afternoon – lovely country!” 

 

Aug 10 – “Cohasset morning on shopping. Our hottest day – 82 ° on veranda. Read aloud ‘Capt Warren’s Wards.’” 

 

Aug 11 – “Somewhat cooler – but too humid to admit of any very strenuous living.” 

 

Aug 12 blank 

 

Aug 13 – “Miss Heald here for day. Drove this afternoon – shore drive – and came home to an early lobster supper.” 

 

Aug 14 – “Isabelle and Dorothy in town all day – seeing Mrs Thomas among other errands. I have been interested in 
Darwin & Ward and have finished lots of little jobs.” 

 

Aug 15 blank 

 

Aug 16 – “ Perfectly beautiful Sunday and we are grieved to think there are only two more weeks!” 

 

Aug 17 blank 

Aug 18 blank 

Aug 19 blank 

Aug 20 blank 

Aug 21 blank 

Aug 22 blank 

 

Aug 23 – “Sunday – visited all morning with Mrs Simpson. Drove to Marshfield to hunt up Peregrine Whites home, 
inviting Mr Brown to go with us and to return for supper.” 

 

Aug 24 – “Regular Monday morning shopping. Drove to Hingham this afternoon via Jerusalem Road.” 

 

Aug 25 blank 

Aug 26 blank 

 


Aug 27 – “Such wonderful weather! Picked bay-berries all the morning for candles only to find we had done it too soon!! 
October is the month. Fine sail this afternoon.” 

 

Aug 28 – “Day in Boston. Bought a coat. Had luncheon with Mrs Thomas. Called on Miss Claribel and came home 
about 7.30. (Move back two days. Spent this day quietly at home with D.)” 

 

Aug 29 – “Miserable rainy day spent in Boston shopping for Dorothy and in calling upon Mrs Thomas.” 

 

Aug 30 blank 

 

Aug 31 – “Sunday. Read aloud ‘John Winterbourne’s Family’ all the morning. Short shore drive this afternoon. 
‘Lesson’ this evening. Packed all this day. (Move back one day) 

 

September 1 – “Mrs Simpson left this morning. Mr Martin in town late again and ‘Marie’ has typhoid. So his plans are 
upset and we take car as far as Albany.” 

 

Sep 2 – “Hottest 2nd in 36 years! Left The Farm at 11. Luncheon at The Somerset. Called on Mrs Thomas. Dinner at 
Leicester Inn with the loveliest moonlight ride to Springfield ever known.” 

 

Sep 3 – “Disappointed not to see room at Northampton. Luncheon at Red Lion Inn. Drove to Albany via Stockbridge 
Bowl and Pittsfield. Mr Martin’s suddenly ill.” 

 

Sep 4 – “Mr Martin able to go on. We left by Fast Mail arriving at seven o’clock. Got mostly unpacked and settled before 
bed-time.” 

 

Sep 5 – “Finished unpacking. Marketed and made ready to receive Mrs Wright, Frances & Llewellyn. Mr Martin and 
boys arrived midnight.” 

 

Sep 6 – “Went to church alone. The Wright’s left this noon and we were quiet rest of day. A wonderful woman to meet 
the Cheney tragedy in such a sane impersonal way.” 

 

Sep 7 – “Duffed right in all day on the college preparations. Miss Doty here & everything is humming.” 

 

Sep 8 – “Very cold. Visited dentist and milliner this morning. All went to see ‘Peg o’ My Heart’ this evening and I never 
enjoyed a play more!” 

 

Sep 9 – “Much shopping for Dorothy but with three of us it goes off very quickly. Dined with Jessie this evening & went 
to Wed. church.” 

 

Sep 10 – “More shopping and sewing for Dorothy.” 

 

Sep 11 – “Took the two Dorothys out to Baffius - a bitterly cold ride. Fires felt good at The Automobile Club where we 
had luncheon.” 

 

Sep 12 – “Much warmer.” 

 

Sep 13 – “Sunday with church for everybody. Met Mrs Jones – Pres. of Boston Chromatic at Mrs Choates this afternoon. 
The Wills, Moreys, Reidpaths, and ‘Myrtella’ here for supper.” 

 

Sep 14 – Finished Dorothy’s cross-stitching. Call from Mrs Simpson this morning. Dentist to have nerve removed.” 


 

Sep 15 – “Dorothy’s last day a busy but harmonious one. She went off very happily. Fosters en masse at station.” 

 

Sep 16 – “Spent morning cleaning Darwin’s room. Dentist this afternoon and drive after it.” 

 

Sep 17 – “Luncheon at The Club, and we took Darwin out to see Jack Board after it. Mrs Underhill spent evening with 
us.” 

 

Sep 18 – “Cleared Dorothy’s room. Her letters show a happy and easy adjustment to College.” 

Sep 19 – “Drive all over Western New York. Very hot and dusty. Bartons here for supper.” 

 

Sep 20 – “Isabelle all in with headache. Very hot for this time of year. Usual quiet Sunday evening.” 

 

Sep 21 blank 

 

Sep 22 – “Too hot for anything to-day.” 

 

Sep 23 – “Jolliest luncheon to-day we ever had – Mrs Barrell, Mrs Choate, Mrs Prentiss & Mrs Hillman in the interests of 
The Chromatic Club. Heat broken at last by cold storm.” 

 

Sep 24 – “Luncheon at The Club inviting Miss McKinnon to put us in touch with The Guild plans for the winter. Not 
promising.” 

 

Sep 25 – “Pleasant day in Rochester at Mrs Van Hoesen’s[?].” 

 

Sep 26 – “Usual rushing Saturday. Pleasant evening with The Fosters who joined us in a duck dinner. Called on Mame & 
Bertha who straightened me out on D’s room-mate.” 

 

Sep 27 – “Sunday, home again Isabelle not well. All had supper over at Mrs Morey’s.” 

 

Sep 28 – “Tea at Mrs Barrell’s with Mary P. and Mrs Hillman relative to Music Settlement. We have promised to visit 
Music Schools in both New York & Boston.” 

 

Sep 29 – “Very busy day – our flat being papered making packing difficult. Leaving this evening for New York & New 
Eng.” 

 

Sep 30 – “A wonderful day! Saw David Mannes for an hour at his home this morning and visited his Music School this 
afternoon. It was an interesting experience being Registration Day.” 

 

October 1 – “Morning at Dr Meek’s who said encouraging things to Isabelle about her eyes. Lunched at the ‘Marie 
Antoniette’ and shopped for flowers at McCreery’s.” 

 

Oct 2 – “Arrived Sp. at three and trolleyed to Chic. Falls and had a lovely hour calling on Miss Mary and walking 
around.” 

 

Oct 3 – “Arrived Northampton at ten. Unsatisfactory interview with the Dean. Miss Perry however is co-operating in 
doing over D’s room. Went to Hartford for Sunday.” 

 

Oct 4 – “Peace Sunday. Church with Herrick. Bartons here for dinner - they took me back to Northampton with them.” 

 


Oct 5 – “Chapel with D. Took some of our belongings over to her closet, shopped for room furnishings then left for 
Boston. Nice visit with Miss Wheelock on train.” 

 

Oct 6 – “Hard day of corset fittings by Miss Parker at Filene’s. Shopped for D. – lamp, china etc. Luncheon at The 
Womens Exchange.” 

 

Oct 7 – “Visited Denison House – North & South End Music Settlements. Charmed by Mrs Filene & Mr Bloomfield at 
the former. Tiring experiences & went early to bed.” 

 

Oct 8 – “Called on Mrs Thomas. Afternoon tea with Edith in her apartment, then left at six o’clock for Sp. playing 
Canfield all the way. Supper in our room at The Kimball.” 

 

Oct 9 – “Left Sp. at noon after a satisfactory shopping expedition at Brighams. Called on Dorothea & Esther this 
afternoon. Supper with the girls at Boyden’s. Very hot weather!” 

 

Oct 10 – “Settled D’s room which is lovely! Ran out to Deerfield this afternoon without the girls to visit the industries. 
Oh, such lovely old doorways! Shopped later for D’s supper to-morrow night.” 

 

Oct 11 – “Sunday. C.I. Church. Took girls to Deerfield Arms for dinner. Drove thro’ Sunderland, Amherst stopping at 
Madelaine’s Hadley home. Never saw such foliage. Dean Brown of Yale at Vespers. Dorothy gave spread for us 
inviting 22.” 

 

Oct 12 – “Left Northampton this morning stopping an hour in Hartford en route to N.Y. Located at The Collingwood. 
Isabelle all in with terrific sick headache.” 

 

Oct 13 – “Visited Dr Meeks with Isabelle again and also the optician.” 

 

Oct 14 – “Our last day in New York. Interesting experiences at Hanfstaengel’s and Braun’s.” 

 

Oct 15 – “Arrived Rochester at 8.30 and had final fittings at Mrs Van Hoesen’s. Reached home at 1.50.” 

 

Oct 16 – “Settled. Looked over bills etc. A few errands. Dined with Thekla.” 

 

Oct 17 – “Marketed all the morning & delivered flowers. Munder over for tea.” 

 

Oct 18 – “Sunday, rain. Church then went round to Mame and Bertha’s for dinner. A lovely visit!” 

 

Oct 19 – “Cross-stitched all the morning. Errands this afternoon – then called on Madame Dann with Isabelle.” 

 

Oct 20 – “First meeting of Literary Club. Fine paper beginning the three years course of drama. First Newcomb.[?] 
Hambourg recital this afternoon.” 

 

Oct 21 – “Expected Ida C. for few days but she failed us. Mrs Dold, Mrs Parker and Munder here for luncheon.” 

 

Oct 22 – “Beautiful day & we drove out to Plum Daffy. Found it well wired but we walked and sat around and loved it.” 

 

Oct 23 – “Thekla had luncheon with us to-day – then after taking her home we went to Mary Prentiss’ for tea with Mrs 
Barrell.” 

 

Oct 24 – “Unsuccessful hunt for Music Settlement rooms. Much colder and we stayed at home this afternoon.” 


 

Oct 25 – “Mr Martin’s 49th birthday. The Kirbys here for dinner and afternoon.” 

 

Oct 26 – “Bitterly cold – only 29! Lived in the flat most of day. Went to Alice Rogers debutante tea. Attended 
committee meeting at Mrs Prentisses this evening.” 

 

Oct 27 – “Visited Guild in new quarters this morning. Luncheon at Club with Miss Welles with whom D. has begun 
violin lessons. Mrs Morey dined with us. Read ‘In the Vanguard’, Mrs Trask’s peace plan.” 

 

Oct 28 – “Luncheon at Munder’s with Isabelle finishing bonnets & scarf to go upon the Xmas ship.” 

 

Oct 29 blank 

Oct 30 blank 

Oct 31 blank 

 

November 1 blank 

 

Nov 2 – “Ida in town at last - and she came after class with Isabelle. Mrs Foster, and Mrs Simpson for tea. Ida was so 
interesting to Isabelle & me in her enthusiasm over Eng.” 

 

Nov 3 – “Ida & Munder our guests at Literary Club. – (Sakuntala) Went home with them to luncheon. Attended reception 
to Suffragists at Mrs. Rumsey’s. Exciting eve. hearing returns – Commission Gov. winning city. ” 

 

Nov 4 – “Attended burial of Mrs Wm Lord. Went to Mrs Dold’s luncheon at the 20th Cent. Club (18) then went with Ida 
& Munder to see exhibit of tapestries at Gallery.” 

 

Nov 5 blank 

 

Nov 6 – “Mrs Morey here for luncheon. Calls this afternoon delivering tickets for our musicale.” 

 

Nov 7 – “Morning at Larkin Co. buying materials for dresses – an interesting experience. Heard John Spargo talk at Mrs 
Bull’s on Philanthropy in relation to Socialism.” 

 

Nov 8 – “Miserable, cold, raw Sunday. Baileys here for supper.” 

 

Nov 9 – “Busy morning delivering last tickets, calling on Mrs Parker, Munder, and Mrs Simpson. Mary Auteri[?] lecture 
followed by reception at The Guild couldn’t attend owing to sudden blood pressure.” 

 

Nov 10 – “Telegram from Mrs Salter telling of her Mother’s death gave us a busy day recalling our invitations for 
Musicale Saturday.” 

 

Nov 11 – “Bartons return to their home roof breakfasting & dining here first however. Munder’s guests at The Club. 
Called afterwards – I upon Miss Falkner, then drove around The Front to enjoy the clouds.” 

 

Nov 12 – “Guests of The Smith College Club at Mrs Albrights to hear Pres. Woolley – one of the really great women of 
our country.” 

 

Nov 13 – “Isabelle in bed all day. Rain, 84 mile gale! Read ‘The Idol Breaker’ – Charles Rann Kennedy’s last play.” 

 


Nov 14 – “Lovely luncheon today! Mrs Northrup, Mrs Chamberlain, Mrs Underhill & Mrs Staples. Home wonderful 
with chrysanthemums – pink ones nearly five feet growing in boxes.” 

 

Nov 15 – “Sunday – cold – rain. Home all day.” 

 

Nov 16 – “Tina Lerner’s recital at Ruth Kellogg’s one of the choicest musical experiences I have ever had.” 

 

Nov 17 – “Shampoo this morning. Called with Isabelle upon Mrs Putnam & Mrs Frank Goodyear before hearing 
Hambourg recital at Mrs. Schoelhopf’s. Left 1.25 this eve. for Hartford.” 

 

Nov 18 – “Came right thro’ to Hartford & found Hattie was in C. F. My guardian angel was not on duty! Unpacked and 
rested.” 

 

Nov 19 blank 

Nov 20 blank 

Nov 21 blank 

 

Nov 22 – “Sunday. Nell, Tom and I alone for dinner. Tom drove Nell to Sp. right after it.” 

 

Nov 23 – “Very cold. Drove with C. & H to florists at West Hartford but came home and hugged the fire & knitted as I 
have been doing. 

 

Nov 24 – “Successful morning’s shopping at The Little Crafts Shop. Called on Maud Stanwood this afternoon who is ill. 
Charming visit with Mrs Scott also.” 

 

Nov 25 blank 

Nov 26 blank 

 

Nov 27 – “Down town with Lilian this morning. Rested all afternoon. Have enjoyed reading ‘The Precipice’ by Elia 
Peattie. Boys taught me Auction this evening.” 

 

Nov 28 – “Alumnae House again! Girls met me but I had Dorothy alone at dinner and for most of evening which I spent 
in sewing for her.” 

 

Nov 29 – “The girls breakfasted with me. Paradise with Dorothea and church. Peg, Faith, Virginia & the Dr dined with 
us Dutch treat. Walked on Round Hill. Left Northampton before Vespers.” 

 

Nov 30 – “Monday morning Club with H. Called on Maud Stanwood. After luncheon went out to The Kimballs. Met an 
interesting girl there – Laura Huntsinger.” 

 

December 1 – “Westville Day. Luncheon at Jean’s where we met a curious woman Mrs Goodsell from Paris. Anna[?] 
better than we had expected.” 

 

Dec 2 blank 

Dec 3 blank 

Dec 4 blank 

Dec 5 blank 

Dec 6 blank 

Dec 7 blank 

Dec 8 blank 


Dec 9 blank 

Dec 10 blank 

Dec 11 blank 

Dec 12 blank 

Dec 13 blank 

Dec 14 blank 

 

Dec 15 – “Drama League guests of H. P. L. Club this morning to hear Mr Goetz read a paper on The Greek Drama. Trios 
this” 

 

Dec 16 – “Worked all the morning doing up Xmas gifts. Luncheon at The Club given by Mrs Bailey. Spent rest of 
afternoon with K. Ogden much entertained by her account of The Goodyears.” 

 

Dec 17 blank 

Dec 18 blank 

 

Dec 19 – “Carried all our things to the C. A. S. and did our marketing and a few other errands. Read aloud all the 
evening from Fiske’s Beginnings of New Eng.” 

 

Dec 20 – “Xmas Sunday. Church. Ida with us and I walked back to her apartment with her. Mrs Curtis died about noon. 
“ 

 

Dec 21 blank 

Dec 22 blank 

 

Dec 23 – “Finished all our gift distribution to-day. Weather very cold indeed.” 

 

Dec 24 – “D. arrived early looking plump & happy as a peach. Saw to plant distribution. Ended day helping Darwin 
make Nativity – such ingenuity & imagination! Beautiful snow tonight.” 

 

Dec 25 – “No joke Xmas this year. Lovely day and lovely gifts! Bartons, Moreys, Fosters, Simpsons & Coatsworths in 
the evening. Darwin adorable playing Xmas carols!” 

 

Dec 26 – “Usual day of straightening out after the Xmas deluge. Slipped on D’s threshold and hurt myself so that I had 
elbow set this evening and ribs straightened.” 

 

Dec 27 – “Sunday, no church nor anything else for me to-day. Very sore and bruised.” 

 

Dec 28 – “Pretty rocky from my accident. Dorothy gave luncheon to girls in neighborhood.” 

 

Dec 29 – “Errands this morning & in the rain so D’s sleigh-ride had to be given up but she had nice dinner & dance. Two 
musicians gave fine music on accordion & guitar.” 

 

Dec 30 – “Quiet day. Dorothy & Isabelle both out for luncheon and afternoon. Got part of Xmas notes written.” 

 

Dec 31 – “Much happy living in the flat today. ‘College spread’ while D. entertained at luncheon. Numerica this evening 
with Benedict and D.” 

 

1915 

 


January 1 – “Did not join family at Pygmalion Party but met them with Barcalos at The Fosters for dinner.” 

 

Jan 2 – “Morning at Beach’s sitting for photos – the children & I.” 

 

Jan 3 – “Sunday, church with Thekla. Bartons here for dinner. Mrs Parmelee called with Fosters. Dorothy at K. 
Cookes.” 

 

Jan 4 – “Beautiful day. Spent morning picking up house & looking over bills. Down town this afternoon bringing Jessie 
up for tea with me at The Club. Reidpaths here for dinner.” 

 

Jan 5 – “Shopped all the morning with Dorothy. Laura out all afternoon shampooing etc. Numerica, pedro and pool this 
Dorothy’s last evening at home.” 

 

Jan 6 – “Heard Lucy Pratt of Cambridge, Mass. give her Ezikiel Stories at The Club this morning. Dorothy went back to 
College to-night very reluctantly.” 

 

Jan 7 – “Home this morning secretarial work. Ordered sapphire ring this afternoon! Feeling quite unhappy over Hattie’s 
physical condition.” 

 

Jan 8 – “Heard Mrs Havelock Ellis speak on ‘The Art of Happiness’ at The Garrett Club. She read also a very Mystical 
story.” 

 

Jan 9 – “Marketed as usual. Heard Chro. Club alone. Charming Beethoven written for cello & clarinet!” 

 

Jan 10 – “Isabelle in bed so I was at home this morning. Heard Dr Boynton on Matthew Arnold this afternoon – home & 
got supper – then to bed.” 

 

Jan 11 – “Sat for my pictures again this morning & went to dress-makers. Isabelle in bed so I was home rest of day.” 

 

Jan 12 – “Morning at oculist with Darwin. 

 

Jan 13 – “Mrs Barcalo’s guests at The Club to-day. Dentists. Stopped at Ida’s where Isabelle had waited for me looking 
over my proofs which at last seem satisfactory.” 

 

Jan 14 – “Made eleven calls with Isabelle and found no one at home but Mrs Board. Mr Martin at Nichols School dinner 
to-night. We read our Republican & had Moreys here.” 

 

Jan 15 – “Unpleasant morning at oculists with Darwin. Out again this afternoon with him for errands. Dancing school 
tonight. Weather very mild.” 

 

Jan 16 blank 

Jan 17 blank 

Jan 18 blank 

Jan 19 blank 

Jan 20 blank 

Jan 21 blank 

Jan 22 blank 

Jan 23 blank 

Jan 24 blank 

Jan 25 blank 


Jan 26 blank 

Jan 27 blank 

Jan 28 blank 

Jan 29 blank 

Jan 30 blank 

 

Jan 31 – “C. S. Church this morning with Isabelle. Spoke to reader & some of the girls. Dorothy’s for supper. Virginia 
sang. Later in D’s room had Information Test with Faith. Peg, Sarah, Harriet & D.” 

 

February 1 blank 

Feb 2 blank 

 

Feb 3 – “Interesting interview with Dr Burton who showed us plans for the future college.” 

 

Feb 4 – “Lovely day shopping at Brigham and for Dorothy’s screen. Leaving this evening for home and relieved for I’ve 
felt so apprehensive ever since we left.” 

 

Feb 5 – “Arrived Buffalo 6.20. Mr Martin met us with news of ‘Maud Dick’s’ death last night which saddens Isabelle a 
good deal. Went down and got my ring.” 

 

Feb 6 – “Morning at Miss Sellien’s. Roads in terrible condition again. Mrs Underhill in for tea. Mrs Morey in this 
evening. Read most of ‘Children of Earth’ in between times.” 

 

Feb 7 – “Darwin and I went alone to church – Mr Martin being wretched again with boils. Home quietly the rest of day.” 

 

Feb 8 blank 

 

Feb 9 – “Postponed Literary Club meeting. Greek Symposium great fun! ‘Katie’[?] with us for luncheon & we made 
plans for Herr Schmidt’s lecture here. Elena Gerhardt’s recital heavenly lovely!” 

 

Feb 10 – “Afternoon at Club – Drama League meeting followed by tea with Genevieve Stoll. Sipprell exhibition of Color 
Photography very fine.” 

 

Feb 11 – “Errands – ending at Club for luncheon. Munder and James out for tea.” 

 

Feb 12 – “Lovely luncheon to-day – only Katherine couldn’t come – with May Staples and Mrs Putnam.” 

 

Feb 13 – “Read ‘The Sunken Bell’ this morning. Called on Mrs Bell, Clara Allen, Mrs Neill, and The Halls this 
afternoon.” 

 

Feb 14 – “Very tired and have slept six hours of my Sunday. The Simpsons dropped in for supper.” 

 

Feb 15 – “Read all the morning – war news etc. Drama League meeting to meet Mrs Saunders of Boston. Evening with 
‘Lena[?]’ over Japan! The year of years to go! 

 

Feb 16 – “Splendid papers by Mrs Bugbee & Mrs Merrill at Literary Club. Made Seneca Street calls this afternoon. 
Kreisler recital had to miss on account of upset circulation.” 

Feb 17 – “Ash Wednesday service at Trinity Church very beautiful indeed. Mr Davis impresses one greatly with his 
spirituality. Ida at luncheon with us. Brought out lovely pictures of Switzerland.” 

 


Feb 18 – “Noon service at St Paul’s. Walked up afterward to Century Club for luncheon. Dined at Mrs Barcalo’s with 
the Fosters.” 

 

Feb 19 – “Reading ‘The Master Builder’. Took Ida with me shopping this afternoon. Mr Martin gone to-night to spend 
Sunday and the 22nd with Dorothy.” 

 

Feb 20 – “Day devoted to entertaining Prof Schmidt at dinner to-night with Simpsons and The Drama League. 150 
present to hear Prof S. wonderful lecture on Ibsen.” 

 

Feb 21 – “Church. Very mild day and drove to Clarence this afternoon. Mrs Hubbard Miss Crawford and Katherine here 
for supper.” 

 

Feb 22 – “Worked in the greenhouse most of morning. Visited ‘Katie’s’ class and heard ‘The Lady from the Sea’. 
Isabelle not well to-night so are not hearing Prof Usher on The Scope of German’s Ambition.” 

 

Feb 23 – “Isabelle in bed all day. Bartons here for dinner to hear Mr M’s account of his & Laura’s visit to Smith – ‘the 
three most wonderful days he ever had in his life.’” 

 

 Feb 24 – “Isabelle better but not up until night again. Finished ‘The Lady from the Sea’ and Henry Arthur Jones 
delightful comedy ‘Mary goes First’.” 

 

Feb 25 – “Luncheon at Club. Mrs Barton & Mrs Morey with us. Mrs Neill brought out for tea. Miss DeLong who 
charmed us all with her account of her starting The Pine Mt. School in Kentucky.” 

 

Feb 26 – “In Rochester all day. A very cold windy and trying experience in as much as I had another fall!” 

 

Feb 27 – “Much looking over of materials for spring dress-making. Mrs Ellis lecture at four upon Edward Carpenter. 
Mrs Coonley Ward, Mr Bazir, Miss Rudd, Miss Sackett here for tea.” 

 

Feb 28 – “Church out here with Mrs Morey and then a long walk. Alone this evening & had Thekla out for tea – wagon 
supper before the fire.” 

 

March 1 – Mrs Coonley Ward wished to come out again so was here for luncheon and afternoon until we took her to Miss 
Muzzcys[?] new bungalow for tea.” 

 

Mar 2 blank 

Mar 3 blank 

 

Mar 4 – “Chromatic Club calls again this afternoon – interesting discoveries!” 

 

Mar 5 – “Dentist and errands this morning. Long nap this afternoon because of dinner this evening at Mrs Parkers with 
Fosters, Wills, and Dolds.” 

 

Mar 6 – “Very humid day. Fine program at Chromatic Club ending with Jan Sickecz[?]. Called at Mrs Birdsall’s on way 
home.” 

 

Mar 7 blank 

Mar 8 blank 

Mar 9 blank 

Mar 10 blank 


Mar 11 blank 

Mar 12 blank 

Mar 13 blank 

 

 Mar 14 – “Sunday. Wyoming. ‘Church’ at breakfast table – guests repeating 19th & 23rd Ps. Addeson’s Hymn & 
Stevenson Prayers. Drove thro’ the Gulf. Rest of day given to guests – principally to Charles & Saadi.” 

 

Mar 15 blank 

 

Mar 16 – “Spent morning looking over Mrs Wards jewelry and gems until we left to drive to Warsaw for our train. 
Arrived home at two after three most perfect days.” 

 

Mar 17 blank 

Mar 18 blank 

Mar 19 blank 

Mar 20 blank 

Mar 21 blank 

Mar 22 blank 

Mar 23 blank 

 

Mar 24 – “Anna ill and gone” 

 

Mar 25 – “Dorothy came this morning for two weeks. Virginia and her Mother were here for luncheon. Plans for Mr 
Martin taking the children to California this summer nearly settled.” 

 

Mar 26 – “Luncheon at The Club taking Mrs Morey to visit with Dorothy. Afterward saw Joe Allen about Darwin’s week 
of straight failure in Greek!” 

 

Mar 27 – “Mrs Wick’s funeral this morning.” 

 

Mar 28 – “Sunday – called on Thekla before church” 

 

Mar 29 – “Isabelle & Dorothy in Rochester. Had Jessie for luncheon with me at The Club. Ground covered with snow 
again – weather very cold.” 

 

Mar 30 blank 

Mar 31 blank 

 

April 1 – “Dress-maker’s this morning. Went with May Staples to Mrs Clifton’s funeral this afternoon. Then had tea & 
nice visit with Mrs Simpson. Mr Shield’s lecture with Isabelle at C. S. church this eve.” 

 

Apr 2 – “Good Friday service at Trinity perfectly beautiful – beginning with the Vorspiel to Parsifal. Read Parsifal this 
eve. After Bartons and Mr Martin had gone to C.S. Lecture.” 

 

Apr 3 – “Last program of Chro. Club was a Bach one. Cantata was sung and there were selections for orchestra. A very 
delightful afternoon!” 

Apr 4 – “Home all this Easter Sunday until evening when we went down to the Wills for supper in their new house. Betty 
and Ida out this afternoon.” 

 

Apr 5 blank 


 

April 6 – “Dorothy’s luncheon for Mary Craus. Isabelle, Darwin & I lunching at Park Club.” 

 

Apr 7 – “Busy day getting Dorothy off to College.” 

 

Apr 8 – “Drama League meeting at 11 at Westminster church. Luncheon at Club taking Ida with us. Shopped after it. 
Mrs Morey here for dinner and night.” 

 

Apr 9 – “Summer’s day - 72°! Isabelle had a lovely birthday evening ending with card from Dorothy & long evening 
with Mr Martin on business matters.” 

 

Apr 10 – “Errands this morning finding at last satisfactory veranda furnishings.” 

 

Apr 11 – “Sunday. church with Thekla. Nice call on Bertha Keyes talking about Smith. She says Isabelle & I are not 
universal enough in our view-point – that ‘we can’t see the woods for the trees’.” 

 

Apr 12 – “Wet disagreeable day and in all day except to drive Isabelle up to Class.” 

 

Apr 13 – “May Staples remarkable paper at Club comparing four modern dramas with previous work of the Club. An 
unfortunate call upon Katie this afternoon. Miss Mann & Clark[?] had tea with us here.” 

 

Apr 14 – “Sigmund de Ivanowski who is to paint Isabelle’s portrait arrived about 11. Time was given to the hours & place 
of portrait etc. He is fresh from a winter on Martha’s Vineyard & full of inspiration.” 

 

Apr 15 – “Isabelle’s first sitting. I spent morning with them but I’m sure Mr Ivanowski would prefer to be alone with her. 
He is a Polish Count – very highly educated, a most remarkable man spiritually.” 

 

Apr 16 – “Mrs Coonley Ward came in at noon bringing the negro artist Mr Henry O. Tanner. They remained for 
luncheon. Mr T. proved to be an old friend of Mr Ivanowski & their meeting was lovely to see. Went later for tea at Mrs 
Matthews” 

 

Apr 17 – “Day given entirely to Darwin’s dance. Thirty-four children came. Isabelle chosen director for two years by 
Chromatic Club.” 

 

Apr 18 – “Sunday – at home all day. Ivanowski worked part of day and left this evening for High Orchard.” 

 

Apr 19 – “Early day. Went at 4.30 with Isabelle to Garrett Club for tea with Mrs Barrell to meet Mrs Seymour Barnard.” 

 

Apr 20 – “Morning given to Mrs Rumsey in Suffrage interests. Clayton Hamilton’s lecture on ‘The New Art of Making 
Plays’ disappointing. Glad we’re not going to Detroit! Moreys here for dinner because Eda does go [?].” 

 

Apr 21 – “Saw Pavlowa[sic] who does not impress me as being any more wonderful than many of her companions. 
Greek dance the most beautiful thing I ever saw.” 

 

Apr 22 – “Successful all day trip to Rochester. Letter from Mrs Salter waited our arrival home. Mary Prentiss came out 
this eve. & we decided to put recital thro’.” 

 

Apr 23 – “Much house-cleaning! Went with Isabelle to Chro. Club Directors meeting where they elected officers for next 
year.” 

 


Apr 24 – “Very hot day. temp. 80 degrees. Worked on Salter recital all day – sold 65 tickets. Fosters and Barcalos here 
for dinner.” 

 

Apr 25 – “Sunday. Frank Lloyd Wright here and no church for anyone.” 

 

Apr 26 – “Errands. Found Ida here for dinner when I returned.” 

 

Apr 27 – “Last Literary Club. Reports of Drama League Convention were given by Mrs Morey & Mrs Simpson. Ellen 
M. here for luncheon.” 

 

Apr 28 – “Last Century Club Meeting. Mrs Deming’s guests at luncheon.” 

 

Apr 29 – “Above should be written here.” [ ie,]”Mrs. Reidpath and M arrived home from their winter south. Mrs. Salter 
arrived at 5.30 for over Sunday. Mary P. out for evening deciding on programs etc “ 

 

Apr 30 – “Ditto” [ie] “Took Mrs. Salter to see Dalcroze exhibition at Franklin School. Mrs Kennedy, Mrs Barrell 
Mayer[?], Underhill, Hillman, Prentiss and Miss Larned guests at luncheon.” 

 

May 1 – “Ditto” [ie] “The Salter-Prentiss recital. One hundred present. Mrs. S. delightfully informal and interesting in her 
remarks about her songs.” 

 

May 2 – “Ditto” [ie] “Round of churches with Mrs. S. beginning with C. S. and ending at Westminster. Visited Mr 
Myer’s studio. Callers for Mrs. S. all the afternoon.” 

 

May 3 – “Saw Mrs Salter off at 9.30 this morning. Made several calls during day.” 

 

May 4 – “House-cleaning all day. Weather cold and rainy” 


May 5 – “Went to Mrs Kennedy’s luncheon in honor of Mrs Chamberlain’s niece Mrs Stevens given at The Club. Said 
good-bye to Ida” 

 

May 6 – “Very busy house-cleaning day.” 

 

May 7 – “Lusitania torpedoed by German submarine. Sank in 15 min. 1500 lives lost, among them it is believed Mr and 
Mrs Elbert Hubbard.” 

 

May 8 – “Motored to Lockport this afternoon taking Miss Heald with us who has recently lost her mother. Country 
perfectly beautiful!” 

 

May 9 – “Church with Thekla. Called upon Mrs Knowlton and Mrs Wilkes with her afterward and then had a good visit 
with her at dinner. Supper at Mrs Morey’s” 

 

May 10 blank 

 

May 11 – “House-cleaned my room. Saw Edurice[?] Noye[?] in original dances this evening accompanied by Mildred [N 
]” 

 

May 12 – “Bertha and Emily up from Rochester and we have had a lovely day! Ran down to the Falls after luncheon.” 

 


May 13 – “Mrs Coonley Ward & Stuart Walker here. Heard him talk at The Studio Club about his work at The 
Christodora House. A lovable charming man.” 

 

May 14 – “Mrs Reidpath and Margaret out for afternoon and evening.” 

 

May 15 – “Down town all the morning – hair and errands. Family took a country run this afternoon but I stayed at home 
doing odd jobs.” 

 

May 16 – “Cold rainy Sunday. Leaving this evening for Chicago.” 

 

May 17 – “Arrived in sunshine but the cold, too. Nice visit with Mrs D. alone, seeing presents and trousseau. Drive with 
Mrs Teter & luncheon at Fields given for Dorothy by Mrs Eaton. Charlie arrived at 3 & all dined together at 5746[?]” 

 

May 18 – “Sunny & cold. Decorated church with aspens. Our lady roses & candles added later. ‘Ave Maria’ Gounod’s 
played just before Dorothy entered, the bride of the most statuesque beauty I ever saw. Reception at house very pleasant.” 

 

May 19 – “Early start – visiting first Lorado Taft studio – a charming experience!! Luncheon with Winifred, nice walk 
around University buildings, back to Chicago to leave with Charlie at 5.30 after a heavenly time!!” 

 

May 20 – “Arrived Buffalo 7.30 this morning and have slept most of day.” 

 

May 21 – “Shocked to hear of Mrs Lyman’s death the 19th at The Del Prado! Attended Mrs Prentiss’s tea at College 
Club. Munder here for dinner.” 

 

May 22 – “Errands. Deposited $50 in Musical Extension Com. interests. Leaving this eve. with Isabelle for Phila., 
Atlantic City. Bethlehem (Ivanowski) Boston, etc.” 

 

May 23 – “Lovely weather here in Philadelphia. Motored thro’ Fairmount Park to Allen Lane to have supper with the 
Bournau[?] family.” 

 

May 24 – “Hotel Brighton, Atlantic City has much the atmosphere for us of Red Lion Inn. The Board Walk is certainly 
unique!” 

 

May 25 – “Hours on Board Walk. Moonlight lovely!” 

 

May 26 – “Photos taken. Hands read. Did all kinds of stunts today.” 

 

May 27 – “Auto drive this morning.” 

 

May 28 – “Left Atlantic City this A.M. for Bach Festival. Rooms with Mrs C. N. Shields 24 Church St. Heard St John 
Passion Music at 4 and at 8. Lovely beyond anything ever dreamed of.” 

 

May 29 – “Visited Sisterhood this morning and saw all Moravian interests. Heard B Minor Mass at two. Left for 
Cranford N. J.[?] at four where, thro’ the kindness of Mr Wessells we were taken in at Hampton Hall.” 

 

May 30 – “Sunday. lovely weather. Drove over to Mr. Ivanowski’s studio this morning and had a short sitting. Saw 
portrait and was disappointed.” 

 

May 31 – “Played Canfield all the morning until twelve when we went to Mr I’s again – this time for luncheon.” 

 


June 1 – “Luncheon at Mr Ivanowski’s again. Left at four for New York where we are at Collingwood for the night.” 

 

Jun 2 – “Shopped all the morning and then left for Boston where we are located at Hotel Somerset.” 

 

Jun 3 – “Morning with our nice old man at Lauriats[?] who raked up an old edition of Margaret Fuller’s Memoirs for us. 
Edith spent eve. with us bringing me the Herrick coat-of-arms.” 

 

Jun 4 – “Lovely day with Thorntons! Mr Martin and Dorothy here for ‘Siegfried’ given in Harvard Stadium to-night – a 
thrilling experience for us in our good seats.” 

 

Jun 5 – “Edith and I left at noon for Exeter where we have seen the boys beat Andover in base-ball. E. is a charming old 
town and I am pleased with F.D.C’s friends.” 

 

Jun 6 – “Edith sick all night and it has been a hard Sunday, so that Hotel Somerset looks good to me. Heard Frederic play 
the organ, however, which is what I went for.” 

 

Jun 7 – “Shopped with Isabelle and Munder this morning. Quiet afternoon Amherst Night at Pop Concert an inspiring 
event!” 

 

Jun 8 – “Went out to Wellesley for taste of Laura’s Commencement. Luncheon at [?] A. Tea at some other Society 
House. Float this evening.” 

 

Jun 9 – “Drove to see those wonderful rose-houses and took train at S. F. for Springfield. Rested all afternoon at The 
Kimball. The Ds. joined Isabelle for Buffalo and I came home.” 

 

Jun 10 – “Sewed for Hattie nearly all day in preparation for her California trip. Tom took for a ride about the City then 
we went to prayer-meeting.” 

 

Jun 11 – “More bags and collar and cuff sets!” 

 

Jun 12 – “Did last of Hattie’s shopping this morning – Pullman robe etc. Charlie took us this afternoon to Farmington.” 

 

Jun 13 – “Lovely Children’s Sunday at Immanuel Church. Mr Tucker, who has just returned from Cal., his sister, and 
Miss Hotchkiss here for supper.” 

 

Jun 14 – “Boiling hot day – Busy getting ready Charlie’s birthday dinner. Ames brought family down in auto.” 

 

Jun 15 – “Rain & humidity. Leaving this evening for Buffalo.” 

June 16 – “Arrived at 10 this morning. Buffalo is perfectly beautiful! Slipped my jaws and had a serious time at Dr 
Russells this evening.” 

 

Jun 17 – “Down town doing last errands for our Cal. travellers, and helping Miss Doty out with the sewing.” 

 

Jun 18 – “The Ivanowskis arrived this morning. The finishing touches were made and the portrait signed – a satisfaction 
to all. Family departed for California at 8.30. P.M. A blistering hot day.” 

 

Jun 19 – “The Ivanowskis came out at 11 and we went to Clifton House for luncheon. Mrs Davenport gave a small tea at 
4.30 for The Is. after which we stopped at Mrs Goodyears garden. Ivanowskis returned to N.Y. this eve.” 

 


Jun 20 – “Sunday – rested this morning, then went to Munders to dinner. Spent evening copying recipes and other odd 
jobs.” 

 

Jun 21 – “Made calls this afternoon and had dinner at Mrs Morey’s.” 

 

Jun 22 – “Dr Fay took out wisdom tooth this A.M. & thinks my ear-ache will stop. Bartons home from vacation & 
Isabelle went down to meet them & bring them out for dinner.” 

 

Jun 23 – “Very cold and rainy. Luncheon at Mrs Parmelee’s with Isabelle. Called on Olive Williams about College 
rooms. Grandma & Auntie Margaret out for dinner. Temperature 48!” 

 

Jun 24 – “Mrs Parmelee & her guest out for tea. Mrs Morey and Benedict over for dinner. Reading Memoirs of Margaret 
Fuller.” 

 

Jun 25 – “Visited around in the neighborhood this morning. Out this afternoon for a few errands. Weather still unusually 
cold.” 

 

Jun 26 blank 

Jun 27 blank 

Jun 28 blank 

Jun 29 blank 

Jun 30 blank 

 

July 1 blank 

Jul 2 blank 

Jul 3 blank 

Jul 4 blank 

Jul 5 blank 

Jul 6 blank 

Jul 7 blank 

Jul 8 blank 

Jul 9 blank 

Jul 10 blank 

Jul 11 blank 

Jul 12 blank 

Jul 13 blank 

Jul 14 blank 

 

July 15 – “Barcalos took us” 

 

Jul 16 – “Lovely run from Albany to Williamstown via Pittsfield, arriving at The Greylock in time for luncheon. Howes 
& Dean Ferry off on fishing trip but had nice visit with Mrs Dillaway.” 

 

Jul 17 – “Nice little visit with The Howes before leaving via Mohawk Trail for Greensfield. Delayed 5 hrs. for repairs – 
terribly hot! Picnic supper and lovely ride via Athol to Templeton for the night.” 

 

Jul 18 – “Sunday – luncheon at Groton Inn. Stopped at Whittier birthplace in Haverhill and at Deer Island. Supper at 
Newbury port. Night at Hotel Farragut Rye.” 

 


Jul 19 – “Left Rye this morning – visiting en route to Portland the Thomas Bailey Aldrich house in Portsmouth. Shore 
route quite disappointing – roads rough from recent heavy rains. ‘La Fayette’ attractive in Portland.” 

 

Jul 20 – “Drove about Portland – lovely city. Heard Municipal Organ Recital – McFarlane the organist, before leaving for 
Brunswick this afternoon. A lovely walk at sunset on college campus!” 

 

Jul 21 – “Left Brunswick at nine. Better roads than yesterday but we didn’t reach Rockland before one. The Samoset is 
lovely and we want to stay rest of summer!” 

 

Jul 22 – “Explored woods and shore about here. Drove over to Camden at four to welcome Mrs Daws. Finished reading 
‘The Country of the Pointed Firs’ this eve.” 

 

Jul 23 – “Lovely day sitting out doors and reading ‘Jeffery’. Had Mrs Daws over for tea and took her back.” 

 

Jul 24 blank 

 

July 25 – “Sunday. Isabelle in bed until night when we drove up to the loveliest little fir balsam grove on the shore 
toward Camden.” 

 

Jul 26 – “Foggy night but cleared so that we left Samoset at nine. Lunched by the side of the road – arriving in Portland 
(raining) about five. Congress Sq.” 

 

Jul 27 – “Lovely day in the woods. Followed the Ammonoosac up finding Twin Flower this morning. Afternoon in 
woods back of Mt. Pleasant House reading ‘The Pearl of Arris Island’.” 

 

Jul 28 – “Left Portland at nine – cloudy but clearing. Poland Springs charming! Luncheon Bay of Naples Inn (over 
advertised) Tea at Intervals. lovely ride to Bretton Woods. (Transpose with 27th)” 

 

Jul 29 – “Wonderful day of clouds! Left Bretton Woods at nine – stopped in Littleton long enough to telephone Anna. 
Luncheon Hale’s Tavern – Wells River. Arrived Woodstock four-thirty.” 

 

Jul 30 – “Lovely mountain drive thro’ woods with charming little brooks all the way from Woodstock to Manchester. 
Rested in our room most of day.” 

 

Jul 31 – “Very hot & glad to leave Manchester. Spending night at Isabelle’s friends house at Glen Falls.” 

 

August 1 – “Heat continues. Motored to Schenectady and took train. Could get no seats in parlor-car and had a miserable 
trip home!” 

 

Aug 2 – “Family arrived this morning safe but not sound. Dorothy has high temperature and heavy cold. Bartons and 
Reidpaths here for dinner.” 

 

Aug 3 blank 

 

Aug 4 – “John going to leave us. It seems he took unto himself a wife on our trip!” 

 

Aug 5 blank 

Aug 6 blank 

Aug 7 blank 

 


August 8 – “Church – terrible shower delayed me at Utica St. Luncheon at Theklas. Bartons with Everett Martin here for 
supper. Darwin decorated a cake for Uncle George’s birthday.” 

 

Aug 9 blank 

 

Aug 10 – “Fosters & Brewers here for dinner. I went down later to call upon Mr Will Lord.” 

 

Aug 11 – “Very pleasant veranda tea at Mrs Underhill’s for Mrs Pray.” 

 

Aug 12 – “Mrs. Dann and Dorothea here all day. Worked upon Maternity Kits for Red Cross. Drove latter part of 
afternoon. Hard evening – revolt of Dorothy. Isabelle ill with headache.” 

 

Aug 13 – “Luncheon at Munders for Mrs Pray. Isabelle not able to go.” 

 

Aug 14 blank 

 

Aug 15 – “Sunday – at home quietly all day.” 

 

Aug 16 blank 

 

Aug 17 – “Gave luncheon for Laura’s house party and other guests - very pretty decorations bachelor buttons & whites 
Wellesley colors” 

 

Aug 18 blank 

 

Aug 19 – “Lyon came this morning and we have had a lovely day at Niagara with him.” 

 

Aug 20 – “With Lyon more or less all day – reading to Isabelle between times. ‘I, Myself’ by Mrs F. P. O’Connor. ” 

 

Aug 21 – “Poured all day. Mr Martin ill. Mr Berry here for dinner. Lyon left this morning.” 

 

Aug 22 – “Sunday. church with Isabelle and the boys. Long nap this aft. Mrs Pray over this evening.” 

 

Aug 23 – “Lovely day out at Idlewood – Mrs Barcalo’s guests. Grandma & Auntie Margaret here for dinner.” 

 

Aug 24 – “Over at Nichols School superintending decoration of office walls.” 

 

Aug 25 – “Down town twice to-day seeing about furs etc. Everett went home to-night. Mrs Morey here for dinner and 
the night.” 

 

Aug 26 – “Very cold. Went to Munder’s luncheon given at the Park Club for Mrs Dold’s sister. Later took Mrs 
Severance and Delta to Automobile Club for tea. Mrs Pray here this eve. having musical talk with Dorothy.” 

 

Aug 27 – “The Joe Allens were here for dinner and we had a very pleasant evening’s conversation. Dorothea’s birthday.” 

 

Aug 28 – “Day given to Dorothy’s luncheon for Miss Jauch and the girls.” 

 

Aug 29 – “Dorothy and Mr Martin both away and we had a quiet, lovely Sunday.” 

 

Aug 30 – “Waited all day to go out and car wasn’t ready. Sent off clothes and did a lot about the house.” 


 

Aug 31 – “Sun out again and we went out to Idlewood taking Mrs Stevens and ‘Marmii[?]’. Family went to theatre. 
Thekla spent evening with us – loving the portrait!” 

 

September 1 blank 

 

Sep 2 – “Warm weather again at last! Had a lovely picnic with Fosters out on Lake Shore.” 

 

Sep 3 blank 

Sep 4 blank 

Sep 5 blank 

Sep 6 blank 

Sep 7 blank 

Sep 8 blank 

Sep 9 blank 

Sep 10 blank 

Sep 11 blank 

 

Sep 12 – “Sunday. Miss Heald here for dinner. Heyl Nichols for supper.” 

 

Sep 13 blank 

Sep 14 blank 

Sep 15 blank 

Sep 16 blank 

Sep 17 blank 

 

Sep 18 – “Mother & Marg. out for supper. Laura & her father went [with] us to Hubbell wedding. (This Isabelle’s day) 
We’re busy with errands and sewing for Dorothy.” 

 

Sep 19 – “Bartons in for Sunday dinner. Fourteen callers during afternoon ending with Roth family for supper.” 

 

Sep 20 blank 

 

Sep 21 – “Dorothy’s last day at home. Laura also goes this eve. to Simmons for year. Bertha married to Will Husted by 
Charlie at St. Bartholomews Chapel.” 

 

Sep 22 – “Isabelle resting to-day. I went down and selected new suits for Darwin with long trousers! Bought neck-ties for 
Herrick trousseau.” 

 

Sep 23 – “Luncheon at Park Club with Isabelle. Thekla (whom I had first been invited to hear play at her house) and Miss 
Hagerty. Later lovely call on Mrs. Goodyear.” 

 

Sep 24 – “Worst rheumatic storm ever had took cold on Mrs Goodyear’s terrace yesterday.” 

 

Sep 25 – “Feeling better and able to get up on couch.” 

 

Sep 26 – “Mr & Mrs M. at Dold Farm so had a quiet Sunday but for a few calls. Darwin in long trousers to-day. 72 mile 
an hour gale a terror.” 

 


Sep 27 – “Up to breakfast & had a walk but was quiet rest of day. Very cold only 50 at noon! Went in to see Underhill 
baby number three.” 

 

Sep 28 blank 

Sep 29 blank 

Sep 30 blank 

 

October 1 blank 

Oct 2 blank 

Oct 3 blank 

Oct 4 blank 

Oct 5 blank 

Oct 6 blank 

Oct 7 blank 

Oct 8 blank 

Oct 9 blank 

Oct 10 blank 

Oct 11 blank 

Oct 12 blank 

Oct 13 blank 

Oct 14 blank 

Oct 15 blank 

Oct 16 blank 

Oct 17 blank 

 

Oct 18 – “Covered window-box and that finishes doing over my room. Addressed announcements with Herrick this 
evening.” 

 

Oct 19 – “Lovely drive with Alice Kimball this morning ending with short call upon her mother. Alice Williams Sherman 
here for the night.” 

 

Oct 20 blank 

 

Oct 21 – “Ames, Ilsa & Frederic here for luncheon. Motored both ways to Bristol for Herrick’s wedding. John, 
Constance, Bertha, Mr Husted & Bobby & Lester came, also Ames family and Ruth Sherburne[?]. All, including H. & L. 
here at house after wedding.” 

 

Oct 22 – “Nice call this morning from John and Constance and Husteds before leaving. Ruth Sherburne remaining over 
day with us – nice girl, very!” 

 

Oct 23 – “Rested and picked up things for packing – again – also finished Lilians [ ]. Hear that Isabelle has been in bed 
for three weeks!” 

 

Oct 24 – “Motored to New Haven this afternoon taking Charlie down for Nat’l Council. Tom & Ruth Loveland went. 
Picked up F. D. C. and all had tea at The Taft.” 

 

Oct 25 – “Northampton at noon. Drove to Hadley after luncheon before D.D.M. left for Buffalo. Isabelle weak & 
looking terribly!” 

 


Oct 26 – “Sat out in the enclosed veranda of Alumnae House all the morning in the sun. Drove round ‘Dippy Hill’ this 
afternoon.” 

 

Oct 27 – “Heard Prof Palmer of Harvard lecture on ‘Puritan Homes’ at College this afternoon.” 

 

Oct 28 blank 

 

Oct 29 – “Have to give up our rooms in Alumnae House for two nights so took the girls and drove over to Deerfield 
where Isabelle & I are staying at Old Deerfield Arms – very comfortable house.” 

 

Oct 30 – “Went in & out of houses seeing the Industries of Deerfield. Especially enjoyed Mrs Gertrude Smith. Motored 
about Greenfield this afternoon & have had a lovely day.” 

 

Oct 31 – “Sunday – out all morning, visiting beautiful old church founded by Rev. Samuel Mather in 1676. Drove back to 
Hamp at 2.30. Heard Dean Brours[?] at Vespers on The Wise and Foolish Virgins.” 

 

November 1 – “Beautiful Week” 

 

Nov 2 – “Dorothy’s English class & heard music lesson to-day. Visited Harper Shampooing Rooms. Mary & Dorothea to 
dinner with us.” 

 

Nov 3 – “Miss Jordan’s class with Harriet [ ]. Pleasant experience at Library finding out that my companion from Lake 
Placid was Dr Lukas Eastman – Sioux. Calls on Mildred Howells & Mrs Houghton.” 

 

Nov 4 – “Left Northampton at 11, arriving at Hotel Somerset about 4.” 

 

Nov 5 – “Miserable rainy day. Mr. Ivanowski gave Dorothy sitting this morning. Isabelle in bed with headache.” 

 

Nov 6 – “Mr. Ivanowski here this morning. Afternoon tea over in Edith’s room. Eastman Weaver here for dinner and 
took Dorothy.” 

 

Nov 7 – “Sunday. Ivanowksis here for dinner. Saw Dorothy off at four and walked out to the Hotel.” 

 

Nov 8 – “Perfectly wonderful weather! Secured victoria and Cockney driver and much enjoyed long afternoon in The 
Arboretum.” 

 

Nov 9 – “Lovely drive in Brookline this afternoon – including Longwood and Chestnut Hill. Dined at Mrs Prays this 
evening.” 

 

Nov 10 – “Cambridge this morning followed by drive with The McKenzies. C.S. Meeting this evening and Evan 
Williams Recital.” 

 

Nov 11 – “Shopped for china, books etc. Luncheon at Parker House. Edith and Lyon here for dinner and the evening.” 

 

Nov 12 – “Rainy humid day. Spent most of afternoon at Cambridge. Saw Granville Barker’s production of ‘The Man 
Who Married a Dumb Wife’ and ‘Androcles and the Lion.’” 

 

Nov 13 – “Nice call from F.D.C. early this morning. Luncheon at The Farm at North Scituate. Mrs McIvestire[?] taking 
us! Great football day – Yale beating Princeton 13 to 7.” 

 


Nov 14 – “Nicest Sunday morning ever in Boston! Walked thro’ Fenway to Church of the Disciples and heard Mr 
Rihbany on ‘The Larger & Fuller Life’. Lyon and Ruth in for tea.” 

 

Nov 15 blank 

 

Nov 16 – New York Symphony Concert Mischa Elman soloist. Enjoyed John Carpenter’s ‘Perambulator Suite’ very 
much.” 

 

Nov 17 – “Mr Thomas serious illness makes me have Edith much on my mind. Down town all day shopping.” 

 

Nov 18 – “Luncheon with Edith. Drove to Arboretum and had tea at Edith’s; Laura joining there and here for dinner. 
Call at Wheelock School on way back with L.” 

 

Nov 19 – “Pouring rain all day. Had eyes examined and went Cambridge. Dorothy arrived for Game.” 

 

Nov 20 – “Beautiful day for Yale’s defeat by Harvard 41 to 0! Had luncheon at Mrs Thorntons, called on [Bac ] same 
time Hattie did! Pleasant home evening with Dorothy.” 

 

Nov 21 – “Our last Sunday in Boston has been a very lovely one. Mother Church this morning. Call from Eastman who 
took D. to train while we went to Kreisler concert. Mrs Pray & Benj to supper.” 

 

Nov 22 – “Cambridge this morning, and went over to Boston for few more errands. Lunched at Mary Elizabeth’s.” 

 

Nov 23 – “Left Boston at 12. Engine & baggage car separated from train delayed us an hour. Dorothy joined me at Sp. 
Arrived N.Y. at 8, went up and called on Christine Herrick.” 

 

Nov 24 – “Late breakfast so didn’t arrive at Westfield until noon. Spent all of afternoon - Dorothy visiting Mrs. Ball’s 
studio. Arrived at Hampton Hall for dinner.” 

 

Nov 25 – “Thanksgiving Day at Crawford, N.J. Sounds queer! Had early sittings and were back for dinner at Hampton 
Hall. Spent rest of day walking and playing Japanese Whist.” 

 

Nov 26 – “Dorothy finished sitting so we could leave at 1.06. Spent time in shops until D. left at 5.03 for Hamp. I spent 
my time quietly at Collingwood until I left for Buffalo at 9.34.” 

Nov 27 – “Arrived at 8.20, unpacked and got settled generally.” 

 

Nov 28 – “First Sunday back. Went to church with Isabelle and called on Mame & Bertha afterward. Munder & Mr F. 
out for supper.” 

 

Nov 29 – “Frida left to-day. Isabelle went to Mrs. Simpsons Class and I went for shampoo etc. Mrs Morey in for dinner. 
Barcalos called.” 

 

Nov 30 – “Mrs Morey’s & Mrs Staple’s papers on Shakespeare at The Club this A.M. Mrs. Simpson stayed for 
luncheon. Xmas shopping later.” 

 

December 1 – “Wretched day & did nothing but one trip down town.” 

 

Dec 2 – “Heard Dr. Brashear at 20th Cent. lecture on ‘Astronomy’.Came home & got dinner for Darwin while others went 
to Buffalo Club - Munder’s guests.” 

 


Dec 3 – “Mrs Bailey in for luncheon after [ ] operation. Made some calls later and went to Mrs Barrells to Directors 
Meeting.” 

 

Dec 4 – “Busy day at home until four when we went out and did errands. Mrs Morey had dinner with us and Mr Martin to 
us all evening.” 

 

Dec 5 blank 

Dec 6 blank 

Dec 7 blank 

Dec 8 blank 

Dec 9 blank 

 

Dec 10 – “Morning out at Ivanowskis not agreeable Dorothy’s portrait not pleasing. Beautiful vesper service at St 
Bartholomew’s. Home to-night.” 

 

NO MORE ENTRIES FOR 1915 

 

 

MEMORANDA 

 

 

“Hattie’s luncheon card – 

To Lexington came Paul Revere 

Also our youngest member here. 

She’s welcome to Connecticut 

Without an ‘and,’ or ‘if,’ or ‘but’. 

In her are happily combined 

Fine qualities of heart and mind. 

Good music is her cherished [ t] 

Especially a male queritette.” 

 

 

 

“All one’s life is music if one touches the notes rightly and in time.---There is no music in a ‘rest’, that I know 
of but there’s he making of music in it. And people are always missing that part of the life – melody and 
scrambling on without counting. Not that it’s easy to count, but nothing on which so much depends ever is 
easy” 

- Ruskin 


 

“Though thy life be fixed in one place, and thou neither sailest the sea nor treadest the path of dry land go at 
least to Eleucis[?] that thou mayest see those great nights, sacred to Demeter, thro’ which thou shalt keep thy 
soul sacred among the living and go join the great host with a lighter heart.” 

 

 

 

 

 

 


MEMORANDA at end of diary 

 

 

John Herrick 

 b. July 27th 1815. – d. Mar. 22nd 1884 

married Jan 5th 1843 

Fidelia Stiles. 

b. Nov. 17th 1827. – d. May 8th 1882. 

Children 

John Elliot – b. Nov 22nd 1843 

 d. Mar 1st 1896 

married Helen A Chubb April 8th 1874 

who was born Cleveland Sept 1st 1850 

Dwight Stiles [?] 

b. Dec 12th 1845 – d. May 10th 1908 

married Dec 6 1871 

Sarah Frances Simpson[?] 

b. Sept 23rd 1850 d. Nov. 16th 1909 

William Taylor 

b. Aug 27th 1854 – d. Mar 9th 1900 

married 

Ida Claravelle [?] Hadley 

b. June 22nd 1853 

Harriet Fidelia 

b. Feb. 28th 1861 

married May 28th 1884 d. Apr 22, 1923 

Charles Francis Carter 

b. June 17th 1856 

Children of 

 Dwight Stiles Herrick 

 Sarah Frances Herrick 

 are as follows 

Bertha Frances – born Oct. 14th 1873 

Married Frederick Merwin [?] Lloyd[?] on 

 June 6th 1901 who died May 13th 1905 

 

John Rutherford who died at birth 1875 

 

John Rutherford born Nov. 3rd 1878 

Married Constance Brain[?] [ ? ] b. July 26th 

 October 12 1910 

 

Parcy Ruth born June 20th 1887 

Married Douglas Macduff 

 Nov. 30th 1910 

 Ruth Melrou [?] Macduff b. Oct 6th 1912 

 Dwight Herrick March 28th 1917 

 

 

 


 

Children of 

 William Taylor Herrick 

 Ida Claravelle[?] Herrick 

 are as follows 

 

Lester Eliot - b Dec 13th 1874 

married Harriet Bogardus[?] June 21st 1903 

who was born Feb. 16th 1876 

 

Edith Mary - b. Mar. 27th 1876 

 

Grace – born May 18th and died summer of 18[blank] 

 

Percy[?] Stewart – born May 24th 1893 

 And died August 1894 

 

Children of Lester[?] Eliot Herrick 

 Harriet Bogardus Herrick 

John Hadley b. Dec 19th 1908 

Barbara b. Sept 18 1912 

 

 


Appendix: CONTEXTUAL NOTES RE: ENTRIES IN 

CORA HERRICK’S DIARY (1911-1915) 

 

1/09/11 The play, Mary Magdalene, was written in 1910 by Maurice Maeterlinck (1862-1949), a 
Belgian playwright, poet, and essayist who was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 
1911. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

1/09/11 500 and rum are similar matching card games that were mentioned 18 times in the diary 
during 1911. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

1/23, 2/09 A Dervish is someone following a Sufi Muslim ascetic path, embracing extreme 

3/06, 3/12, 3/14/11 poverty and austerity. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

1/24/11 Marcela Sembrich (1858-1935) was the stage name of a Polish coloratura soprano 
whose singing career was chiefly at the New York Metropolitan Opera and the Royal 
Opera House, Covent Garden, London. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

3/24/11 Literary Landmarks of Rome was written in 1897 by Laurence Hutton (1843-1904). 
(archive.org) 

 

3/24/11 Victor Hugo (1802-1885) was a French poet, novelist, and dramatist and is considered 
one of the most well-known French Romantic writers. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

5/15, 5/17, 6/06/11 The Servant in the House was written in 1908 by Charles Rann Kennedy (1871-1950, an 
Anglo-American writer who, after 1905, spent most of his time writing drama. This play 
was his first success. (www.jstor.org & en.wikipedia.org) 

 

6/22/11 Anti-Matrimony, a satirical comedy, was written in 1910 by Percy MacKaye (1875-
1956), an American dramatist and poet. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

9/07/11 The Blue Bird was written by Maurice Maeterlinck in 1906-08. See also 1/09/11. 

 

10/12/11 There are many references to Thekla in the diary. Thekla Adam was a musician; Dorothy 
Martin was one of her pupils. She was also a poet. (Local History Scrapbook: 
Biographies in the Grosvenor Room of BECPL & The Poets and Poetry of Buffalo) 

 

10/28/11 The Happy Prince, a collection of five stories for children first published in 1888, was 
written by Oscar Wilde (1854-1900), an Irish writer and poet. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

11/05, 11/25/11 Bergliot, op 42, was written by Evard Grieg (1843-1907), Norwegian composer and 
pianist. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

11/17/11 Fra Angelico (1395-1455) was an early Italian Renaissance painter. The author of the 
biography CH read is unknown. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 


 

11/25/11 There are frequent references to the Chromatic Club in the diary. The club was formed 
in 1898 for the musical improvement of its members and later expanded its mission to 
include promoting and encouraging the understanding, appreciation and study of music 
and the development of musical talent. (Buffalo Courier Express, 11/01/1936, sec. 9,p.7) 

 

 

11/26/11 “No listing could be found for “The Revenge”, only one for the short story “The Little 
Revenge” written in 1903, by Mary Shipman Andrews (1860-1936), an American writer 
best known for a widely read short story about Abraham Lincoln, “The Perfect Tribute”. 
(en.wikipedia.org) 

 

12/22/11 Gasoline as a cleaning agent was discovered in the mid-19th century. Flammability 
concerns later led to the development of other solvents to be used for cleaning. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

1/11, 1/18/12 The Playboy of the Western World was written by John Millington Synge (1871-1909), 
Irish playwright, poet, and prose writer. It was first performed in 1907 in Dublin at the 
Abbey Theatre which Synge co-founded. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

1/11/12 Beatrice Forbes Robinson was a Shakespearean actress and suffragist. (excerpts from 
Jewish First Wife Divorced: the Correspondence of Ethel Gross and Harry Hopkins, 
2003 & Contemporary Plays, 2009, listed in books.google.com) 

 

1/16/12 The Highland Park Literary Club began in 1892. Its purpose was the improvement of the 
members through study. Subjects were chosen by the members who presented papers 
on those subjects. Isabelle Martin was a charter member. From 1907 to 1936 meetings 
were held at the Martin’s home from October through April, once or twice a month. In 
the diary the club is referred to as the Literary Club, Parkside Club, P.S. Club, and Club. 
Five meetings are mentioned for 1912 but there were probably more. (Highland Park 
Literary Club archives, Research Library, Buffalo History Museum) 

 

1/23, 1/27/12 The Selfish Giant is in the collection of stories titled The Happy Prince written by Oscar 
Wilde. See also 10/28/11. 

 

1/27/12 Alfred, Lord Tennyson (1809-1892) wrote two versions of The Lady of Shallot, one in 
1833 and one in 1842. Tennyson was Poet Laureate of Great Britain and Ireland during 
Queen Victoria’s reign. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

2/03/12 The Blue Bird may have been the 1908 play by Maurice Maeterlinck. See also 1/09/11. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

2/06/12 Riders to the Sea was written by John Millington Synge (1871-1909). It was first 
performed in 1904 in Dublin. See also 1/11/12. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 


2/08/12 The play, Workhouse Ward, a comedy, was written in 1909 by Isabella Augusta Persse 
(1852-1932), an Irish dramatist who co-founded the Abbey Theatre. (www.enotes.com 
& en.wikipedia.org) 

 

2/19/12 Montessori education is an educational approach developed by Maria Montessori 
(1870-1952) and is characterized by an emphasis on independence, freedom within 
limits, and a respect for a child’s natural psychological development. 
(en.wikipedia.org) 

 

2/20/12 Robert Baden-Powell (1857-1941) was a lieutenant-general in the British Army, a writer, 
and founder of the Scout Movement. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

2/23/12 Courage of the Commonplace was written by Mary Raymond Shipman Andrews (1860- 
1936) in 1911. A film adaptation was made in 1917. See also 11/26/11. 

 

2/24/12 A Doll’s House premiered in Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1879. It was written by Henrik 
Ibsen (1828-1906), a Norwegian playwright and one of the founders of Modernism 
in the theatre. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

2/25/12 Pickwick Papers was written by Charles Dickens (1812-1870 in 1836. It was his first 
novel. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

3/01/12 The Breath of the Gods was written in 1905 by Mary McNeil Fenoliosa (1865-1954) 
under the pseudonym Sidney McCall. It was a great success and was adapted as a 
Broadway play, a film and an opera. (www.encyclopediaofalabama.org) 

 

3/02/12 “The Blessed Damozel”, a poem by Dante Gabriel Rossetti(1828-1882), inspired the 
cantata written in 1888 by Claude Debussy (1862-1918), the French composer. 
(en.wikipedia.org) 

 

3/04/12 “An Habitation Enforced” was a short story first published in 1905 and was written by 
Rudyard Kipling (1865-1936), an English writer who received the Nobel Prize for 
Literature in 1907. (www.kipling.org.uk) 

 

3/11/12 Tennyson’s Idylls of the King contained the story of Pelleas and Ettarre. This may have 
been what Cora Herrick was reading. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

3/13/12 Monna Vanna was a play written by Maeterlinck. See also 1/09/11. 
(theatredatabase.com) 

 

3/25, 4/06/12 Louise F. Mueller was listed in the Buffalo City Directory as an artist or photographer 
from 1908 to 1919. 

 

4/13/12 The play, Pomander Walk, is a romantic comedy written by Louis N. Parker (1852-1944) 
that opened in 1910. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 


4/24/12 Arthur Nikisch (1855-1922) was a Hungarian conductor who performed internationally. 
(en.wikipedia.org) 

 

4/29/12 Points of View, was written by Agnes Repplier (1855-1950), an American essayist, in 
1891. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

5/20/12 The solitaire card game, Canfield, is mentioned five times during 1912-1915. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

5/30, 5/31/12 A book titled The Mother was written in 1907 by Maxim Gorky (1868-1936). 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

6/04/12 The Bayeux Tapestry is an embroidered cloth nearly 230 feet long which depicts the 
events leading up to the Norman conquest of England concerning William, the Duke of 
Normandy and Harold, Earl of Wessex, and culminating in the Battle of Hastings. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

6/05/12 Mont Saint-Michel is a rocky island off Normandy, France that has held fortifications 
since ancient times and since the 8th century has been the seat of a monastery. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

6/07/12 Chateau des Roches was built between the 18th and 19th centuries. In 1804 it was 
acquired by Louis-Francois Bertin who organized a literary salon to which famous artists 
came and which continued until his death in 1841. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

6/14/12 Chateau de Loches is a castle located in the Loire valley. It was constructed in the 9th 
century. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

6/16/12 Chateau de Chaumont is a castle founded in the 10th century. It was ordered destroyed 
by Louis XI and was rebuilt in the 15th century by Charles I d’Amboise. 
(en.wikipedia.org) 

 

6/27/12 The Vicar of Wakefield was written in 1761 by Irish author, Oliver Goldsmith (1730- 
1774), and was one of the most popular 18th century novels among Victorians. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

7/01/12 Brantwood was the home of John Ruskin (1819-1900), the leading English art critic of 
the Victorian era. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

7/01/12 Mary Augusta Ward (1851-1920) was a British novelist. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

7/02/12 Fox How was the home of Matthew Arnold (1822-1888), a British poet and cultural 
critic. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

 

7/03/12 Furness Abbey in Cumbria, England is a former monastery dating back to 1123. 


 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

6/30, 7/05, 7/11/12 William Wordsworth (1770-1850) was a major English Romantic poet who helped to 
launch the Romantic Age in English literature. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

7/17/12 Eaton Hall in Cheshire, England is the country house of the Duke of Westminster. The 
first house was built in the 17th century and was replaced twice, the second time with 
outbuildings and a chapel which took 12 years to complete. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

7/19, 7/23/12 Major Vigoureaux was written in 1907 by Arthur Quiller-Couch (1863-1944), who is 
known primarily for his “Oxford Book of English Verse 1250-1900”. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

8/01, 8/08/12 The Street Called Straight was written in 1912 by Basil King (1859-1928), a 

 Canadian clergyman who became a writer after retiring. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

10/01/12 My Robin was written in 1912 by Frances Eliza Hodgson Burnett (1849-1924), an 
English playwright and author best known for her children’s stories. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

10/05/12 A New Conscience and an Ancient Evil was written by Jane Addams (1860-1935) in 
1912. It tells of the young girls who move to Chicago and become victims of the white slave 
trade. (www.press.uillinois.edu/books/catalog) 

 

10/19/12 Milestones was considered to be the most successful play written by Arnold Bennett 
(1867-1931), British novelist, playwright, essayist, and critic. It was written with Edward 
Knoblock. (www3.shropshire-cc.gov.uk) 

 

10/23/12 Love and Marriage was written in 1911 by Ellen Key (1849-1926), a Swedish feminist 
writer. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

11/04/12 The trick-taking card game Pedro is mentioned nine times during 1912-1915. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

11/12/12 A Listener in Babel: Being a Series of Imaginary Conversations held at the Close of the 
Last Century and Reported by Vida D. Scudder was written in 1903 by Vida Dutton 
Scudder (1861-1954), an American educator, writer, and welfare activist. 
(en.wikipedia.org) 

 

11/18-19/12 Marion Harland’s Autobiography: The Story of a Long Life was published in 1910. 
Marion Harland was the pen name for Mary Virginia Hawes (1830-1922). The book 
relates the story of her ancestors and her life in an historical context. 
(docsouth.unc.edu/fpn/harland) 

 

11/28/12 Fritz Kreisler (1875-1962) was an Austrian violinist who was noted for his tone and 
expressive phrasing. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 


11/28/12 Johanna Gadski (1872-1932) was a German soprano with a powerful voice who 
performed mostly dramatic roles in the German and Italian repertoires. 
(en.wikipedia.org) 

 

11/29/12 Laurence Binyon (1869-1943) was an English poet, dramatist and art scholar. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

12/16/12 Cribbage is a card game usually played by two but can be played with more. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

 

1/07/13 The Highland Park Literary Club held its first meeting for 1913. Six meetings are 
mentioned in the diary but there were probably more. See also 1/15/12. 

 

1/08/13 Alice Meynell (1847-1922) was an English writer,poet, and suffragist. 
(en.wikipedia.org) 

 

1/08/13 Sidney Lanier (1842-1881) was an American musician and poet. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

1/09/13 Flonzahy string quartet was organized in New York City in 1902 and was highly 
regarded. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

1/12/13 “The Hound of Heaven” is a long poem first published in 1893 by English poet Francis 
Thompson (1859-1907). (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

1/15/13 Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm is a classic children’s novel written in 1903 by Kate 
Douglas Wiggin (1856-1923), American educator and author of children’s stories. It 
became a play in 1909 and a movie in 1938. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

1/17/13 Henrietta and Johanna Sellien are listed in the 1913 Buffalo City Directory as being 
dressmakers with a residence at 565 Elmwood Avenue. 

 

1/19/13 Laurence Binyon - see 11/29/12. 

 

1/23, 2/1/13 Rudolf Christoph Eucken (1846-1926) was a German philosopher and the 1908 winner of 
the Nobel Prize for Literature. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

1/24/13 Charles L Tripi is listed as a ladies’ tailor at 693 Main Street in the 1914 Buffalo City 
Directory. 

 

2/03/13 Magda was the English translation of the drama Heimat and was written in 1896 by 
Hermann Sudermann (1857-1928), a German dramatist and novelist. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

2/13/13 Talcott Williams (1849-1928) was a journalist who became the first director of the 
Columbia University Pulitzer School of Journalism. (www.lib.udel.edu/ud) 

 


2/18/13 Lanier - see 1/08/13. Tennyson – see 1/27/12. 

 

2/18/13 Elena Gerhardt (1883-1961) was a German mezzo-soprano known for her 
interpretations of German classical lieder. She left Germany in 1934. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

2/21/13 Uncle Vanya was written in 1896 by Anton Chekhov (1860-1904), Russian physician, 
dramatist and author. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

3/05/13 Sakuntala may refer to a story from Hinduism about Shakuntala or Sakuntala, the wife of 
Dushyanta and the mother of Emperor Bharata. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

3/09, 3/14/13 The Necessary Evil was a play written in 1913 by Charles Rann Kennedy. See also 
5/15/11 note. 

 

3/13/13 Alessandro Bonci (1870-1940) was an Italian lyric tenor famous for his bel canto 
repertoire. Mme. Rhadeska was a blind soprano from Boston. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

3/16/13 The Next Religion was a play written in 1912 by Israel Zangwill (1864-1926), a British 
writer whose Jewish family was from Czarist Russia. (archive.org & en.wikipedia.org) 

 

3/17/13 David Mannes (1866-1959) and his wife Clara Damrosch were co-founders of the David 
Mannes School of Music in New York City. She was a pianist and he was a violinist and 
concertmaster of the New York Symphony Orchestra from 1898 to 1912. 
(en.wikipedia.org) 

 

3/20/13 Leopold Godowsky (1870-1938) was a Polish American pianist, composer, and teacher 
and was a highly regarded performer at that time. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

4/04, 4/05/13 Emile Jacques Dalcroze (1865-1950) was a Swiss composer, musician and music 
educator who developed a method of learning and experiencing music through 
movement. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

4/17/13 Warren & Ruttiman (Grace S. Warren and Rosina E. Ruttiman) is listed as having 
millinery at 56-58 Allen Street in the 1913 Buffalo City Directory. 

 

4/17/13 The Necessary Evil was written by Charles Rann Kennedy. See also 5/15/11. 

 

4/20/13 Albert Besnard (1849-1934) was a French painter who followed the academic tradition 
until 1888, then devoted himself to the study of color and light as used by the 
Impressionists. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

4/27/13 Daffodil Fields was written in 1913 by John Masefield (1878-1967), English poet and 
writer. He was Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom from 1930 until his death and he 
wrote many novels and non-fiction works. (archive.org & en.wikipedia.org) 

 


5/21/13 By Oak and Thorn: a Record of English Days was written in 1896 by Alice Brown (1857- 
1948), an American novelist, poet and playwright best known for writing local color 
stories. (en.wikipedia.org & books.google.com) 

 

6/10/13 Joshua Reynolds (1723-1792) was an influential 18th century English painter specializing 
in portraits. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

6/20/13 Samuel Taylor Coleridge, author of “The Rime of the Ancient Mariner”, was born in 
Devon, England in 1772 and died in Highgate, England in 1834. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

6/28-29/13 Edward Burne-Jones (1833-1898) was a British artist and designer closely associated 
with the Pre-Raphaelite movement and worked with William Morris. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

7/01/13 Beaumanor Hall is a stately home with a park in the village of Woodhouse in 
Leicestershire, England built in Elizabethan style in 1845-7 for the Herrick family. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

7/05/13 Haddon Hall’s origins date to the 11th century with additions made between the 13th and 
17th centuries. In form it is a medieval manor house. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

7/07/13 Plas Newydd is the country seat of the Marquess of Anglesey. The house originated in 
the 14th century and was greatly altered in the 18th century. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

7/12/13 Alywin was written in 1898 by Theodore Watts-Dunton (1832-1914), English critic and 
poet. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

6/17/13 Ship of Stars was written in 1899 by Arthur Quiller-Couch. See also 7/19/12. 

 

7/22/13 Greyfriars Kirk is a parish church of the Church of Scotland. The kirk stands on the site 
of a pre-Reformation establishment of the Franciscan order, the “Grey Friars”. The kirk was 
begun in 1602 and completed around 1620. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

7/23/13 John Knox House is reputed to have been owned by John Knox, the Protestant reformer, 
during the 16th century but Knox appears to have lived in Warriston Close. The house 
was built from 1490 onwards. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

8/01/13 Burns Cottage in Alloway, South Ayrshire, Scotland, is a simple two-room clay and 
thatch cottage in which Robert Burns, Scotland’s national poet, was born in 1759. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

8/07/13 Six Trees: Short Stories was written in 1903 by Mary Eleanor Wilkins Freeman (1852- 
1930), a prominent 19th century American author. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

8/11/13 Fox How - see 7/2/12. 

 


9/11/13 A Montessori Mother was written in 1912 by Dorothy Canfield Fisher (1879-1958), an 
educational reformer, social activist, and best-selling American author in the early 
1900s. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

9/27/13 The Squirrel Cage was written by Dorothy Canfield Fisher. See also 9/11/13. 

 

10/01/13 Four Feathers was an adventure novel written in 1902 by British author A. E. W. Mason 
(1865-1948). (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

10/22/13 Modern Philanthropy: a Study of Efficient Appealing and Giving was written in 1912 by 
Dr. William Harvey Allen (1874-1963). (catalog.loc.gov) 

 

11/03, 11/15/13 Sellien – see 1/17/13 

 

11/15/13 The Poor Little Rich Girl was the best known work of Eleanor Gates (1875-1951), 
American playwright. It was first produced in 1913 and was later made into films in 1917 
and 1938. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

11/30/13 Elijah is an oratorio written by Felix Mendelssohn (1809-1847) in 1846. It depicts events 
in the life of the prophet Elijah, taken from Kings I and Kings II in the Old Testament of 
the Bible. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

12/04/13 Beaumanor Hall and Park – see 7/1/13 

 

12/08/13 Dalcroze – see 4/4/13 

 

12/27/13 Tagore is the anglicized name of Rabindranath Thakur (1861-1941). He was very 
influential in introducing Indian culture to the West and vice versa. He also introduced 
new prose and verse forms and the use of colloquial language into Bengali literature and 
received the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1913. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

12/31/13 Elizabeth Barrett Browning (1806-1861) was one of the most prominent poets of the 
Victorian era. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

 

 

1/02/14 Leon Bakst (1866-1924) was a Russian painter and scene and costume designer, a 
member of the Sergei Diaghilev circle and the Ballet Russes. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

1/02-03/14 Anna Pavlova (1881-1931) was a Russian ballerina widely regarded as one of the best 
classical ballet dancers in history. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

1/05/14 Sadhana: The Realisation of Life was written in 1913 by Tagore. See also 12/27/13. 
Sadhana, includes a variety of disciplines in Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist and Muslim traditions 
that are followed to achieve certain spiritual objectives. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 


1/12/14 Thomas Bailey Aldrich (1836-1907) was an American poet, novelist and editor. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

1/20/14 The Highland Park Literary Club held its first meeting for 1914. Seven meetings are 
mentioned in the diary but there may have been more. See also 1/16/12. 

 

1/22/14 John Clement, Inc (John Clement), ladies’ tailors, is listed at 960 Main Street in the 1914 
Buffalo City Directory. John Clement lived on Summit Avenue. 

 

1/30/14 Luisa Tetrazzini (1871-1940) was an Italian coloratura soprano who enjoyed a very 
successful operatic and concert career in Europe and America. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

2/07, 10/06/14 The Women’s Exchange is listed at 687 Main St in the 1914 Buffalo City Directory. 

 

2/09/14 A Nest of Linnets was written in 1901 by Frank Frankfort Moore (1855-1931), Irish 
dramatist, biographer, novelist and poet. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

2/18, 2/20, 4/14/14 Columbia Grafonola was a wind-up phonograph machine. 
(victrolagramophones.proboards.com) 

 

2/28/14 The School for Scandal was a play written by Richard Sheridan (1751-1816), an Irish 
playwright and poet who was a long-time owner of the Drury Lane Theatre in London. 
The play was first performed there in 1777. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

2/28/14 Annie Russell (1864-1936) was an English born American stage actress who formed her 
own company, the Old English Comedy Company, in 1912 in New York City. 
(en.wikipedia.org) 

 

3/13/14 Grant’s Tomb, officially General Grant National Memorial, is a mausoleum containing 
the bodies of Ulysses S. Grant and his wife. It is in Riverside Park, Manhattan, 
overlooking the Hudson River. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

 

 

3/25/14 The Prince of the House of David was written in 1900 as a collection of letters written 
from a daughter to her father while she was living and studying in Jerusalem. The 
author was Joseph Holt Ingraham (1809-1860), an American. (books.google.com & 
en.wikipedia.org) 

 

3/28/14 Johnson Forbes-Robertson (1853-1937) was considered to be one of the finest actors of 
his time. The Passing of the Third Floor Back was written in 1908 by Jerome K. Jerome 
(1859-1927), an English writer and humorist. The play was later adapted as a film in 
1918 and 1935. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

3/30/14 Miss Dotey is probably Mrs. Hattie A. Doty, dressmaker, who lived at 41 Parkdale Ave. 
according to the 1914 Buffalo City Directory. No Dotey is listed. 


 

4/07/14 Sellien – see 1/17/13. 

 

4/09/14 Post Office was written by Tagore in 1912. See also 12/27/13. 

 

4/14, 5/16, 5/23/14 Adam Bede, the first novel written by George Eliot (pen name of Mary Ann Evans (1819- 
1880), was first published in 1859. It has remained in print ever since. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

4/21/14 “Mr. Crosby’s Rest Cure” appeared in Harper’s Magazine in April 1914. It was written 
by Elizabeth Jordan (1865-1947), an American journalist, author, and suffragist who 
served as editor of Harper’s from 1900 to 1913. (books.google.com & en.wikipedia.org) 

 

5/03, 6/2/14 Jessie Bonstelle (1871-1932) formed the Jessie Bonstelle Stock Company in the early 
1900s. (www.worldcat.org & Federal Writers Project. Michigan: A Guide to the 
Wolverine State) 

 

5/11, 5/12, 5/14/14 The Buffalo Guild of Allied Arts was formed in 1910 and established a center in 1912. It 
sponsored a series of lectures and exhibitions for a variety of artists. Isabelle Martin 
became a Life Member. (The Buffalo Guild of Allied Arts, Research Library, Buffalo 
Museum) 

 

5/22/14 Tagore – see 12/27/13. John Alden Carpenter (1876-1951) was an American composer. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

6/20/14 Daniel Webster (1782-1852) is buried in Winslow Cemetery, Marshfield, MA. 

 (www.nndb.com) 

 

6/24/14 The Chippendales was written in 1909 by Robert Grant (1852-1940), an American author 
and jurist. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

7/02/14 Captain Courageous was written in 1897 by Rudyard Kipling. See also 3/04/12. 

 

7/14/14 Myles Standish (c.1584-1656) served as military advisor for Plymouth Colony. He was 
one of the founders of the town of Duxbury, MA and is buried there. John Alden 
(c.1599-1689) was one of the founders of Plymouth Colony and is also buried at 
Duxbury. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

 8/10/14 Cap’n Warren’s Wards was written in 1911 by Joseph C. Lincoln (1870-1944), an 
American author of novels, poems, and short stories, many set in a fictionalized Cape 
Cod. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

8/23/14 Peregrine White was the first baby born aboard the ship Mayflower as it was docked 
outside Plymouth Colony. His home was in Marshfield, MA where he died in 1704. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

8/31/14 John Winterbourne’s Family was written in 1910 by Alice Brown. See also 5/21/13. 


 (books.google.com & en.wikipedia.org) 

 

9/08/14 The play, Peg o’ My Heart, was first performed in New York City in 1912. A comedy, it 
was written by John Hartley Manners (1870-1928), a London-born playwright of Irish 
descent. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

9/23, 9/28/14 In 1914 the Chromatic Club began a project to assume the music classes that had been 
offered in Welcome Hall, a church-supported settlement house. This led to the founding 
of the First Settlement Music School which later became the Community Music School. 
See also 11/25/11. (Buffalo Courier-Express, 9/22/52, p.13, Research Library, Buffalo 
History Museum) 

 

9/24/14 The Guild refers to the Buffalo Guild of Allied Artists. See 5/12/14. 

 

9/30/14 David Mannes – see 3/17/13. Mr. Mannes had spoken to Chromatic Club members in 
Buffalo about his settlement school work earlier in 1914. 

 

10/07/14 Denison House was founded in 1892 by Emily Greene Balch, a professor at Wellesley 
College, and several Wellesley graduates to provide social services and education to the 
urban poor. It became a center for many neighborhood activities in the Old South Cove 
area of Boston. (ocp.hul.harvard.edu) 

 

10/07/14 The Music School Settlement House was organized in Boston in 1910 on Salem Street 
next to the Civic Service House, a settlement house founded in 1901 to provide services 
for local residents and newly-arrived immigrants. It was modeled after the Music School 
Settlement founded in New York City around 1905. (www.bostonhistory.org) 

 

10/27, 11/09/14 Buffalo Guild of Allied Artists moved from the Heathcote School for Boys at 623 
Delaware Avenue to 238 Delaware Avenue – see also 5/12/14. (Buffalo City Directory) 

 

10/27/14 In the Vanguard, an antiwar play, was written in 1913 by Katrina Trask (1853-1922), an 
American author and philanthropist. (archive.org & en.wikipedia.org) 

 

11/07/14 John Spargo (1876-1966) was born in England and came to the United States in 1901. He 
is regarded as one of the leading public intellectuals affiliated with the Socialists during 
the progressive era of the early 20th century. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

11/13/14 The play, The Idol-breaker, was written by Charles Rann Kennedy in 1914. See also 
5/15/11. (books.google.com) 

 

11/27/14 The Precipice was written in 1914 by Elia W. Peattie (1862-1935), an American author, 
journalist and critic. (www.gutenberg.org & en.wikipedia.org) 

 

11/27/14 Auction is a trick-taking card game also known as Forty-fives. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 


12/19/14 The Beginnings of New England was written in 1889 by John Fiske (1842-1901), an 
American philosopher and historian who was also a popular lecturer. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

12/31/14 Numerica, invented around 1890, is a card game that emphasizes number and strategy 
skills. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

 

1/01/15 Pygmalion was written in 1912 by George Bernard Shaw (1856-1950), an Irish 
playwright, essayist and short story writer who received the Nobel Prize in Literature in 
1925. It was one of 60 plays that he wrote. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

1/02, 1/11/15 Howard D. Beach (1867-1954) was an accredited photographer for the 1901 Pan- 
American Exposition in Buffalo and became a popular portraitist of Buffalo’s social 
register. (Rossi, Dale T. Photographing the Queen (City): A Century of Photography in 
Buffalo, NY 1839-1939) 

 

1/06/15 The Highland Park Literary Club held its first meeting for 1915. The diary mentions 
seven meetings but there may have been more. See also 1/16/12. 

 

1/08/15 Edith Ellis (1861-1916) was a British writer and women’s rights activist. She was openly 
lesbian and had an open marriage with Havelock Ellis, the early sexologist. 
(en.wikipedia.org) 

 

1/10/15 Matthew Arnold – see 7/02/12. 

 

2/05/15 In his journal for Nov. 25, 1885 Darwin Martin records going with Bella to her aunt’s, 
Mrs. Dick’s house on Eagle Street. She may have been Maud Dick. (Library Archives, 
SUNY Buffalo, Darwin D. Martin Family Papers) 

 

2/06/15 Sellien – see 1/17/13. 

 

2/09/15 Elena Gerhardt – see 2/18/13. 

 

2/10/15 Clara Sipprell (1885-1975), an early 20th century photographer, was born in Canada but 
lived most of her life in the United States. She became well known for her pictorial 
landscapes and portraits of famous people. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

2/13/15 The Sunken Bell: a Fairy Play of Five Acts, was written in 1911 by Gerhart Hauptmann 
(1862-1946), German dramatist and novelist who received the Nobel Prize in Literature 
in 1912. (archive.org & en.wikipedia.org) 

 

2/16/15 Fritz Kreisler – see 11/28/12. 

 

2/19/15 The Master Builder, first published in 1892, was written by Henrik Ibsen. See also 
2/24/12. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 


2/22, 2/24/15 Lady from the Sea was written in 1888 by Henrik Ibsen. See also 2/24/12. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

2/24/15 The comedy Mary Goes First was written in 1913 by the British dramatist Henry Arthur 
Jones (1951-1929. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

2/25/15 Pine Mountain Settlement School was founded in 1913 as a school for children in the 
remote southeastern mountains of Kentucky and as a social center for surrounding 
communities. William Creech Sr. donated the land and recruited Ethel DeLong and 
Katherine Pettit to establish and run the school. Darwin D. Martin, influenced by Miss 
DeLong, became a strong supporter of the school and served as the President of the 
Board of Trustees. (www.pinemountainsettlementschool.com & Library Archives, 
SUNY Buffalo, Darwin D. Martin Family Papers) 

 

4/02/15 Parsifal was completed in 1879 by Richard Wagner (1813-1883). It is based on the story 
of the Arthurian knight Parzival and his quest for the Holy Grail. “Vorspiel” leads into 
the opening scene of Parsifal. (www.musicwithease.com) 

 

4/14-18/15 Sigismund de Ivanowski (1875-1944) studied painting in Poland, Germany, Russia, and 
England. He was born in Poland and migrated to the United States in 1902. Besides 
portraits he also did illustrations for books and magazines. He lived in Westfield, NJ and 
had a studio in New York City. CH spelled the first name incorrectly. (Who Was Who 

 in American Art 1564-1975, vol. II) 

 

4/16/15 Henry Ossawa Tanner (1859-1937) was the first African-American painter to gain 
international acclaim. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

4/21/15 Pavlova – see 1/02/14. 

 

4/30/15 Dalcroze – see 4/04/13. 

 

5/13/15 Stuart Walker established a theatre named the Portmanteau at the Christodora 
Settlement House in New York City in 1915. The theatre was portable so it could be set 
up in different locations. (The New York Times, 7/15/1915) 

 

5/19/15 Lorado Taft (1860-1936) was an American sculptor, writer and educator who, after 
studying in Paris, settled in Chicago in 1886 and taught at the Art Institute of Chicago. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

5/28/15 The Bach Festival was first held in Bethlehem, PA in 1900 and continues today. 
Bethlehem was established as a Moravian mission in 1741 and music is very important 
in the Moravian Church. www.nytimes.com/2007/05/07/arts/music & 
en.wikipedia.org) 

 


6/03, 6/24/15 Sarah Margaret Fuller Ossoli, commonly known as Margaret Fuller (1810-1850) was an 
American journalist, critic, and women’s rights advocate associated with the American 
transcendentalism movement. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

6/04/15 Siegfried was the third of the four operas that compose The Ring of the Nibelung by 
Richard Wagner (1813-1883). (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

6/17/15 Doty - see 3/30/14. 

 

7/18/15 John Greenleaf Whittier (1807-1892) was an American Quaker poet and ardent 
abolitionist. He was born in the family homestead near Haverhill, MA. 
(en.wikipedia.org) 

 

7/19/15 Thomas Bailey Aldrich (1836-1907) was an American poet, novelist, and editor. Critics 
have said that his novel The Story of a Bad Boy contained the first realistic depiction of 
childhood in American fiction. He was born in Portsmouth, NH. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

7/22/15 The Country of the Pointed Firs is an 1896 short story sequence written by Sarah Orne 
Jewett (1849-1909). (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

7/27/15 The Pearl of Orr’s Island was written in 1862 by Harriet Beecher Stowe (1811-1896), an 
American abolitionist and author of more than 20 books. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

11/5-7, 12/10/15 Sigismund de Ivanowski – see 4/14/15. 

 

11/10/15 Evan Williams (1867-1918) was an oratorio tenor who made almost 100 recordings and 
gave more than 1,000 performances and recitals during his 25 year career. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

 

11/12/15 The Man Who Married a Dumb Wife was written in 1912 by Anatole France (1844- 
1924), French poet, journalist, and novelist who received the Nobel Prize in Literature in 
1921. The play was written as an entertainment for the members of the Society of 
Rabelaisian Studies but was so well received it was immediately taken up by a regular 
theatre. (www.goodreads.com & en.wikipedia.org) 

 

11/13/15 Androcles and the Lion was a play written in 1912 by George Bernard Shaw. See also 
1/01/15. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

11/14/15 Abraham Mitrie Rihbany (1869-1944) was a theologian, philologist and historian who 
was born in Lebanon and migrated to the United States in 1891. There is a record of his 
preaching on the subject “The Larger and Fuller Life” at the Church of the Disciples in 
Boston. (Unitarian Register, vol. 95, p.22 & en.wikipedia.org) 

 

11/16/15 Mischa Elman (1891-1967) was a Russian violinist famed for his passionate style and 
beautiful tone. He became a United States citizen in 1923. (en.wikipedia.org) 


 

11/16/15 Adventures in a Perambulator, an impressionistic orchestral suite written in 1914, was 
one of the most famous works composed by John Alden Carpenter. See also 5/22/14. 

 (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

11/21/15 Fritz Kreisler – see 11/28/12. 

 

12/02/15 John Brashear (1840-1920) was an American astronomer and instrument builder who 
first was an apprentice to a machinist, then worked as a millwright in Pittsburgh. He 
pursued his interest in astronomy by building his own refractor. After 1880 he 
devoted all of his time to manufacturing astronomical and scientific instruments and 
performing experiments. His instruments were of such quality that they were purchased 
by almost every important observatory in the world. (en.wikipedia.org) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Anita Mitchell 

3/2013 

 

 

 


